Date: 2022-01-10
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Happy New Year everyone. I`m Carl Azuz and it is great to see you as we launch into a new calendar year of objective news   coverage. For more than two years now a leading news story around the world has been COVID-19. It`s still going. In fact, new international records   have been set in recent days for the number of people testing positive for corona virus.  In the United States, the majority of those new infections, 90 percent in some places, have been linked to the newer Omicron variant of the virus   which was first identified in South Africa last Fall. Health officials say it`s extraordinarily contagious, more so than other versions of COVID-19.   The U.S. government says COVID vaccinations are the best defense against all of the virus variants that are currently spreading, and some hospital   officials have told CNN that most of their COVID patients have been unvaccinated.  But despite the fact that more than 62 percent of the entire U.S. population has been fully vaccinated according to the CDC, the country has   seen more new infections than ever. The record set last Monday was over 1,820,000 positive tests as Omicron has infected both the unvaccinated and   the vaccinated. There is a silver lining though. Experts believe Omicron is less severe than other COVID variants. It has milder symptoms overall, and   while more people may catch it, it appears to be causing fewer deaths. Still, there`ve been major differences in how communities and governments   have responded to Omicron`s spread.  In some cities for instance, people need to show proof they`ve been vaccinated in order to go to restaurants, gyms, bowling allies or concerts.   In other areas, people are going about their business as usual without requirements or restrictions in place. When it comes to schools, research   has shown that in-person learning is better for students mental health. But concerns about Omicron`s threat to physical health have renewed debate in   some communities about whether schools should stay open.   (BEGIN AUDIO CLIP) OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Back to school hangs in the balance for the country`s third largest school district, as negotiations between   Chicago Public Schools and the teacher`s union remain deadlocked over returning to in-person learning.  MELANIE LOPEZ, CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOL TEACHER: I`m not happy that we`re not at work. We want to be at work and we -- we want people to understand that   this -- this idealistical remote not to stop working.  JIMENEZ: Melanie Lopez is a high school teacher in the school district and a union member. It`s a teacher`s union that has argued that the city of   Chicago hasn`t provided adequate resources to be in-person safely. Did you feel like you had what you needed in the classroom for it to run safely?  LOPEZ: I did because I bought it. I don`t know if that makes sense.  JIMENEZ: With your own money.  LOPEZ: With my own money. Right.  JIMENEZ: The city however has argued through masking, vaccinations, testing and more that school is still safer than being at home, even with record   numbers of cases among students, staff and across Chicago in recent weeks.  MAYOR LORI LIGHTFOOT (D), MAYOR OF CHICAGO: The difference between now and a year ago was obviously we have vaccines for -- for a huge swath of our   school based population. I think that the issues that are on the table as I understand them, we can narrow the divide and get a deal done. Schools are   safe. There`s been no question about that. JIMENEZ: The union disagrees and one of the major sticking points in their ongoing negotiations with the city is testing. Governor J.B. Pritzker`s   office confirmed Friday, it had been in touch with the White House in recent days asking for more tests. The White House confirmed those   conversations with Pritzker and Mayor Lori Lightfoot to assess their needs. All the while, students have been out of class and parents have been   frustrated.  (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ: 10 Second Trivia. In terms of land area, which of these nations is the largest? Iran, Kazakhstan, Mongolia or Ukraine. Though it`s not the   most populated nation on this list, Kazakhstan is by far the largest in area.  Kazakhstan`s been grappling with violent protests over the past week. At least 164 people there have been killed including dozens of demonstrators   and at least 18 law enforcement officers. More than 5,000 people are reportedly being held by the government. It`s declared a state of emergency   and asked other nations to help protect government buildings.  Some of those have been burned. The unrest started after the price of a type of gasoline suddenly doubled. Afterward, the Kazak government said it   would limit what those prices would be but the protests grew to include other complaints over corruption, the standard of living, poverty and   unemployment. Some Kazak leaders have resigned, though the nation`s president remains in place. He`s characterized the protestors as criminals,   murders and terrorists and he`s ordered government troops to shoot those who don`t surrender.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  NINA DOS SANTOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Kazakhstan rarely makes headlines in the west, but that changed when these protests over rising living costs   were met with brutal repression. As so called peacekeepers from Russia and other post-Soviet states hit the streets of the countries biggest city,   Almaty, there`s deep unease at where the central Asian state is now heading.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The west is going to be keeping an eye on Russian imperial ambitions and perhaps they could start stationing troops there.   But nonetheless, they could -- they could make several power plays.  DOS SANTOS: Home to 90 million people spread over the 9th largest sovereign land mass, Kazakhstan stands between two increasingly autocratic super   powers, Russia to the north and China in the east. Economically, it still has one foot in the past relying on Russia for most of its trade. Whilst   also hosting the Baikonur Cosmodrone, crucial to the Kremlin`s space program.  Large deposits of coal and natural gas, as well as a three percent chunk of the planet`s oil reserves and 40 percent of its uranium mean that   Kazakhstan`s people could be rich. But thanks to a ruling elite in power since the fall of communism, few share in that wealth. For now it`s unclear   what the future holds for Kazakhstan and the country`s stymied potential. What is becoming clearer is the world is watching and it worried. Nina Dos   Santos, CNN, in London.   (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ: Up next today, thunderstorms in the American south. Subzero wind chills in the upper Midwest. Treacherous icy conditions in the Northeast.   All of it is because of a cold front that swept across the country over the weekend. Tens of millions were under a winter weather alert Sunday morning   with freezing rain, ice and sleet threatening some parts of the Northeast.  It came less than a week after another snowstorm led to a number of accidents and a shutdown of Interstate 95 in Virginia. Hundreds of drivers   were stranded along a 50 mile stretch of the road, and the back-up was too severe for even snowplows to get through. Thankfully no injuries or deaths   were reported, even though people were stuck in their cars overnight. If you ever get caught driving in a fast descending snowstorm, here`s a tip.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DEREK VAN DAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT: So we`re all used to seeing cars fishtailing on icy and snow patched roads, but the more common and more   expensive skid is called an under steer.  KURT SPITZNER, DRIVING INSTRUCTOR FOR BRIDGESTONE WINTER DRIVING: We turn in and the car doesn`t want to respond and to make it turn better I have to   take steering out, and notice how the arc came right back and we`re now where we want to be.  VAN DAM: The car almost resurrected itself.  SPITZNER: Correct. If I -- if I had just kept the steering turned in or added more, which is what`s commonly done because our instinct is to, well,   it isn`t steering enough. I need to go ahead and steer a bunch more. The car is going to respond even worse until you run into a curb or into   oncoming traffic. Your speeds good. All right. Go ahead and turn in. Notice how it doesn`t want to respond? Straighten the wheel out slightly. So, by   letting go of the steering wheel you almost noticed it straightened out too much.  VAN DAM: Right.  SPITZNER: In the case of just feed the steering wheel back gently, OK, brake, brake. Off the brakes completely and now turn.  VAN DAM: What a marked difference.  (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ: Henry Ford once said customers could have a Model T painted any color they wanted as long as it was black. As far as this BMW concept is   concerned, customers could have black or white or a whole lot in between as this thing can change color. The vehicle`s wrapped in electronic ink, like   the kind found in e-readers. That allows a variety of monochromatic patterns including racing stripes. If and when it`s produced, other color   options may also be possible. So it`s both color shifting and "monochroautomatic". Would it make a "hue" difference?  It would across the "spectrum" of buyers who are looking to break free from the "prism" of single color options. But while this is something that   hasn`t really been seen "Roy G. Before", critics will say it`s just "throwing shade". I`m Carl Azuz. Elizabeth High School, thank you for   watching from Elizabeth, Colorado. The one place we look for the schools we mention is our You Tube channel. That`s at YouTube.com/CNN10. We hope to   see you all tomorrow.   END   

Date: 2022-01-11
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi, I`m Carl Azuz. Welcome back to CNN 10. For more than seven hours on Monday, a U.S. government official and a Russian government official held a meeting. Its main focus was on recent   events in the nation of Ukraine. For almost eight years now, there`s been an armed conflict in Eastern Ukraine. Russia supports the forces there that are fighting for   independence from the Ukrainian government. The U.S. supports the Ukrainian government, which wants a lasting ceasefire in the conflict and for Russia   to stay out of it. A big reason why Ukraine is important to both America and Russia is its geography. The nation is uniquely positioned between East and West. The   U.S. and its allies in Europe want to limit Russia`s influence in Europe. Russia wants to limit the influence of America and Europe in the country on   its Western border. So, there are international tensions here, in addition to the civil conflict taking place inside Ukraine. Russia has gathered more than a hundred thousand troops near the border and America and its allies are concerned that Russia is preparing to invade.   Russia says its troops are inside Russian territory for military exercises only, not to invade Ukraine. In December, the Biden administration quietly authorized $200 million worth of additional security assistance to Ukraine. That includes weapons,   military and defensive equipment, and American officials say more of that could be on the way. There are several meetings between the U.S. and Russia scheduled this week. They`re aimed at bringing down tensions in the region, but both countries   said Monday`s event did not result in any breakthroughs. We mentioned yesterday how there been major differences in how different places have responded to coronavirus. In Austria, for instance, people over   age 12 can`t go to the movies, stay at a hotel or get a haircut unless they prove they`ve been fully vaccinated or that they recently recovered from   COVID. In Mexico, there are few to no restrictions on travel or activities. Visitors don`t even need to test negative for COVID to get into the   country. Mexico`s government`s been criticized for not doing enough to stop the viruses spread. Austria and other European nations have seen massive   protests in criticism of the restrictions they`ve put in place, and some people get stuck even after following the rules. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WILL RIPLEY, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  In zero COVID Hong Kong, pandemic protocols have paralyzed this once busy travel hub. The   arrival process that used to take minutes now drags on for hours. Mandatory testing at the airport, waiting hours for the results. The lucky ones test   negative and spend up to 21 days in self-paid hotel quarantine. Darryl Chan is not one of the lucky ones. DARRYL CHAN, TESTED POSITIVE FOR OMICRON IN HONG KONG:  I had both of my jabs. I`ve been boosted. I didn`t think -- didn`t ever think I would be a -  - actually test positive on arrival. RIPLEY:  Thirteen hours after landing in Hong Kong, Chan was in an ambulance. His luggage left at the airport. He tested positive for the   omicron variant, even without symptoms his minimum hospital stay is nearly a month. Do you worry about your mental health as days turn into weeks? CHAN:  Yeah, absolutely, because I`ve never been in a situation like this before. DR. ELISABETH WONG, HONG KONG PSYCHIATRIST:  In general, there`s a sense of isolation, anxiety, and in some severe cases even post-traumatic stress. RIPLEY:  Hong Kong psychiatrist Dr. Elisabeth Wong says longer quarantines can be more traumatic. WONG:  And then we have a lot of changes between 7 days, 14 days, and 21 days. That`s when people reported a lot of stress with the longer period of   quarantine. RIPLEY:  Darryl`s day begins with a wakeup jingle. ANNOUNCER:  Attention, please. RIPLEY:  He takes his own vitals. Calls and messages with friends and family help pass the time. CHAN:  Social media`s really helped actually. Definitely makes you feel less alone. RIPLEY:  One of his greatest struggles ---sharing a room and a bathroom, with two strangers. CHAN:  But I think what has definitely impacted me the most so far is the feeling of just not having the freedom, controlled wakeup and bedtimes, not   being able to control what you can eat. RIPLEY:  Hospital meals often consist of mystery meat. The bigger mystery, Chan`s release date. He`s supposed to start a new job, a new life in Hong   Kong. What`s the worst part of this? CHAN:  I think the worst part is not knowing when I`ll be able to get out. RIPLEY:  For now, all he can do is wait. From his hospital bed, freedom feels like a lifetime away. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  A relatively recent theory about sleep is the subject of our next report today. In his research, a historian at Virginia Tech University came   across a European legal document dating back to 1697. It referred to something called a first sleep. Looking deeper, he eventually discovered more than 2,000 references over previous centuries to what he determined was biphasic or two-phase sleep   when people slept for a while woke up to eat, pray, talk or take medicine, and then went back to sleep again. Mentions of first and second sleep reportedly appear in diaries, medical texts literary works and prayer books. And the historian theorized that   people in the Western world who have trouble sleeping through the night now may be experiencing a sort of echo, a hearkening back to how their European   ancestors slept in two phases. The theory is controversial. There are manuscripts hundreds of years older than medieval or renaissance texts that refer to sleeping through the   night. Scholars who`ve studied historical references to sleep in other parts of the world say they haven`t seen anything about sleeping in two   phases and some sleep experts say modern people shouldn`t force themselves to try biphasic sleep, especially if it reduces the total time they spend   sleeping. However, the findings are food for thought. They`re helping historians and modern sleep experts alike better understand how people have gotten shut   eye in the past. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these languages is the oldest? Greek, Farsi or Persian, Chinese or Arabic Written evidence indicates that Greek which dates back to around 1400 BC is the oldest spoken language on this list. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  The experiment, analyze the brains of 18 different dogs as they listen to words in different languages. The goal, to determine whether   man`s best friend can become bilingual. The outcome -- well, the study did find that the dog`s brain activity was much stronger when they heard   nonsense words instead of actual speech in any language. But it also indicated there`s a lot they can learn. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE) LYNDA KINKADE, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT/ANCHOR (voice-over):  When Kun-Kun, the border collie, and his owner moved from Mexico to Hungary,   both were immersed in a new language. LAURA V. CUAYA, ETHOLOGY DEPARTMENT, EOTVOS LORAND UNIVERSITY:  Here people are really friendly with the dogs. So, they are talking all the time to   Kun-Kun. But I was wondering if he can detect this different language. KINKADE:  So Kun-Kun`s owner set out to find an answer. She and a team of researchers in Budapest designed an experiment with 18 dogs to see if they   can differentiate language. With their owners present and the ability to leave the scanner at any point, each of the dog`s brains were analyzed with MRI scanning as they   heard either Hungarian, Spanish, or scrambled speech. Two of the pups were familiar with Spanish. The other 16 were used to hearing Hungarian. ATTILA ANDICS, NEUROSCIENTIST, EOTVOS LORAND UNIVERSITY:  What we see from these results is that they do pay attention, they do pick up on these   auditory irregularities that characterize a certain language. KINKADE:  Scans show different parts of the dogs` brains were activated when a familiar language was spoken, versus a non-familiar one, as well as   when nonsense was spoken, versus authentic speech. The researchers also found that the older the dog, the better its brain was able to distinguish between languages. CUAYA:  It`s a fact how dogs are social beings. So, they are all the time picking up information about the social world. For the dogs, humans, we are   an important source of information. KINKADE:  Kun-Kun, who was one of the study participants, already knew as much. CUAYA:  (SPEAKING SPANISH) GRAPHIC:  Kun-Kun, do you speak Spanish? (DOG BARKS) CUAYA:  (SPEAKING SPANISH) GRAPHIC:  Are you sure? (DOG BARKS) CUAYA:  (SPEAKING HUNGARIAN) GRAPHIC:  Kun-Kun, do you speak Hungarian? KINKADE:  So, while Fidos may not be exactly bilingual --   CUAYA:  (SPEAKING SPANISH) KINKADE:  -- they may be hearing much more than you think. CUAYA:  (SPEAKING SPANISH) KINKADE:  Lynda Kinkade, CNN. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Of course, it all makes sense, when you consider German shepherds, Chinese cresteds, Portuguese water dogs, Irish wolfhounds, English cocker   spaniels, French bulldogs, Italian greyhounds, Bernese mountain dogs, Dutch shepherds, and Hungarian vizslas. All you really got to do is throw `em a   bone up. I`m Carl Azuz. Today`s shout-out goes out to Great Bridge High School. Thank you for watching from Chesapeake, Virginia. Also, thank you for your   comments on our YouTube Channel. Have a great day. Look forward to seeing you all tomorrow. END     

Date: 2022-01-12
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, thanks for taking 10 minutes to watch our show.  My name is Carl Azuz.   We are your objective source for world news, and this Wednesday that starts with a report on a new missile test by North Korea.  The secretive   communist country reportedly launched a ballistic missile on Tuesday that traveled from the northern part of the nation to the ocean between North   Korea and Japan.  A ballistic missile has what`s considered to be a medium- range.  It could fly several hundred miles, potentially reaching a country like South Korea or Japan but not the United States.   South Korea, Japan and the U.S. are allies of each other and rivals of North Korea. Government controlled media in North Korea said the missile   was hypersonic, meaning it could fly as fast as 20 times the speed of sound and be nearly impossible to shoot down. Experts say they`re doubtful the weapon was that advanced and South Korea says it does have the ability to intercept the kind of missile North Korea   launched.  Still, it`s against international law for North Korea to test out ballistic missile and nuclear weapons, though the country has   repeatedly done that any way and considers weapon tests a right.  Analysts say North Korea launches missiles like this to show off its military power   and to get attention from international governments and media.   Across the Pacific the launch was followed by some confusion in U.S. airspace.  Officials say the test was not considered a threat to the   continental United States, but at least two air traffic controllers in different western states and a spokesperson for the San Diego International   Airport said U.S. officials had ordered a temporary ground stop, when pilots were told to land and not take off from multiple westcoast airports. It`s an unusual order that reportedly lasted a few minutes on Monday afternoon, but some other airports in the region said they were unaware of   the ground stop order.  And the spokeswoman for NORAD, the North American Aerospace Defense Command said it gave no warnings to U.S. airports about   the missile launch.  On Tuesday, the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration said it briefly stopped flights from departing at some airports on the   westcoast near the time of the missile test.   10 Second Trivia.  Where would you most likely find a kite winder, an enfilade, and an oxeye?  Plant nursery, Subway, Pet store, Historic home.    These are features you might find in a historic home and some modern ones.   Supply and demand factor into our next story today.  In December, the prices of houses in the United States hit an all-time high.  Real estate   brokerage Redfin says the medium home price was $360,500 and that the number of homes for sale dropped to an all-time low.  That made it a great   year for sellers who could get top dollar for their homes and a tough year for buyers who had to pay more for those homes.   Analysts expect the housing market to settle down a little this year, especially if mortgage rates go up, but one area of uncertainty is for   flippers.  People who buy homes, clean and fix them out and try to sell them at a profit.  The average amount of money they made on flips last year   dropped dramatically from the year before.  Reasons included more expensive materials, more expensive labor and problems with the supply chain. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) LEAH WENSINK, HOUSE FLIPPER:  Where is this wood?  What is this?   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Leah Wensink has been renovating and reselling homes for seven years. WENSINK:  Nope.  See.  Garbage.  This is a huge step outside my comfort zone.  I don`t -- I don`t know if I will make money on this house.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The house she`s working on is located here in east Tennessee.   WENSINK:  This is definitely the most I`ve ever paid for a flip.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Does that have you worried? WENSINK:  Yes.  Absolutely.  I love them so much because they`re lightweight. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Wensink said she bought this home for around $170,000 and spent another $30,000 renovating it with more expense to come.   WENSINK:  It should fit. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  She said she won`t list it for less than $350,000.   WENSINK:  I am very worried about being able to sell the house for what I need in order to compensate for my time.  I think it is getting a lot   tighter to try to meet your margin if you have it, like a margin end goal. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  That`s because a rise in cost.  Home prices, materials and labor have all spiked in the last year. TODD TETA, CHIEF PRODUCTION AND CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER FOR ATTOM DATA SOLUTION:  Flippers, you know, they`re effected pretty dramatically by a   supply and labor issue on the market. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Todd Teta is an executive at ATTOM Data Solutions, which puts out a quarterly report on the house flipping market.   TETA:  Flipping is becoming increasingly more difficult and good operators are going to have to create value by rehabbing their homes intelligently,   buying at a discount as opposed to just riding the wave of rising prices like everybody else has been doing for the last 18 months. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Wensink says working in a smaller community gives her an advantage.   WENSINK:  Coming to a smaller town allows me to feel like I`m not so competitive with everyone.  I`m hoping that there`s not going to be a ton   of people coming in and trying to take over and just buying every house and flipping it.   Thank you, ma`am.  I don`t think for me it would be possible to -- to flip a house in Nashville.  I just don`t think I have the capital.  I don`t   think I have the resources or ability to compete.  I just don`t think it`s possible. MATT EDEN, HOUSE FLIPPER:  So here in Nashville, I`d say that there`s -- there`s a really high number of -- of flips.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Matt Eden flips houses part-time in Madison, Tennessee, a Nashville suburb.   EDEN:  My first flip was only a little over a year ago and I definitely learned a ton through that process.  So, we`re -- we`re at a flip here in   Madison.  We just closed on this about a week ago. Every flip really has its -- its different issues.  Most of mine have some sort of substantial   damage. This is probably one of the worst.  So, we`re going to be headed over to another one of my flips.  The inspector is there.  He inspects the work to ensure that it`s complete and   then he gives me the next draw of money from the lender.   The toughest part about being a flipper is really the unknown and the what- if.  What if we open the walls and there`s major termite damage, what if I have to switch contractors mid-job. Really the anxiety, I guess, of   flipping is probably the hardest part.  You have to be pretty adventurous from a financial perspective.  You have to be willing to accept a little   bit of risk.   TETA:  The downside risk for a flipper is price declines.  We don`t see that happening, what we do see happening is leveling out some markets may   show some declines and softness.  That`s all going to come down to experienced flippers, knowing how much to rehab a home and then pricing it   correctly. EDEN:  I`ve got about $700,000 worth of debt at the moment. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You`re not worried about it. EDEN:  No, I`m not worried about it simply because I know what the properties are going to be worth once they`re done, and I don`t see the   bottom falling out of this market anytime soon. WENSICK:  It`s important to just take your time and hit it in the center.  I`m always worried that there`s going to be a recession and then what value   will this be, but at least still, I`m like well, it`s -- you`re holding property which is at least going to have some value in this world, I hope.   So, I have to try take comfort in that.  I try to talk myself off the -- off the ledge a lot.   (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Unexpected question of the day, can fish drive?  The short answer is no.  But a team of Israeli researchers did recently create a cart that   responds to a goldfish`s movement into a mounted tank.  When the fish swam toward a certain direction, cameras, sensors and a computer made the cart   go there and if the fish reached the target that scientists set up.  The fish got rewarded with food.   At first it reportedly took the animals 30 minutes to figure this out, but after several days of fish "drivers ed" some of them could eventually reach   the target within one minute, even with obstacles in the way.   The scientists say this shows that goldfish have the ability to navigate toward something outside of their immediate environment.  That they may be   smarter than people think they are, and that this might just prove the theory that goldfish have an incredibly short memory.   But some of the animals in the study were better at driving than others, even with food on the line.  So, it`s probably a good idea to keep them in   the tank instead of on the road.   Something else you don`t see everyday rates a 10 out of 10.  Why did the ostriches cross the road?  Because they escaped.  Eighty of these birds   went AWOL from a farm in southern China and made a rush toward city life.   Chinese media say the ostriches got out after a farm worker didn`t properly secure a gate.  No injuries were reported of people or the ostriches and   with the help of police, the farmer was able to recover most of the birds.  Maybe they just wanted to "ostretch" their legs if you know what I`m   saying. Guess they thought farm life was for the birds.  They were "frightless" but "flightless".  They took flight on a "flight of fancy" that got off the   ground but ultimately didn`t get them any air.  And while some may have found their "longleggy" journey "emusing", they certainly embodied   "gumption" over farm.  Baraboo High School, shout out to you our viewers in Baraboo, Wisconsin.   Thank you for your request on our You Tube channel.  I`m Carl Azuz for CNN.   END     

Date: 2022-01-13
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  A troubling sign for the U.S. economy leads off today`s edition of CNN 10.  I`m Carl Azuz.  It`s good to have you watching   this Thursday.  We`ve talked a lot in recent months about inflation, when prices go up for the things we buy and the money we have doesn`t buy as   much as it used to.   The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics just reported that the Consumer Price Index, what people pay for a variety of goods and services, it increased by   7 percent between December 2020 and December 2021.  That`s the biggest jump in prices since 1982 and it`s reflected in the cost of used cars and   trucks, housing and almost every category of groceries.  Between November and December alone, prices increased by half a percentage point, that was   more than many economists had expected but it wasn`t as much as the .8 percent increase between October and November. So, what`s causing this and what does it mean?  The U.S. government has said ongoing problems with the supply chain, the interrupted flow of the   things we buy, continues to lift prices.  Experts say COVID-19 continues to have an impact in some areas, especially with the rapid spread of the   Omicron variant of the virus, and critics of government spending say it has helped drive up inflation.  A silver lining is that the money many   Americans earn has also increased over the past year, especially in some lower income fields like leisure and hospitality, think restaurant and   hotel workers.   But the rise in prices has eaten into their wage gains and in many higher income fields, the rate of inflation has been greater than the rise in   wages.  So is there an end in sight to this?  It`s hard to say.   For much of 2021, the Federal Reserve, America`s Central Bank, said it expected inflation to be transitory or temporary.  By the end of the year,   the Fed had stopped using that term indicating it felt inflation would stick around for a while.  An economist interviewed by CNN expects year   over year price gains to continue at least until the early Spring.     (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Inflation is the textbook term for prices rising over time and purchasing power falling.  Think of a trip to the grocery store.    It sets you back $100.  A year from now you buy all the same items, but they now cost $103.  That`s inflation, 3 percent to be exact.   So, what causes inflation?  A rise in production costs is one scenario.  For example, booming energy prices can drive up the cost of transportation   or manufacturing.  Rising wages can also contribute to inflation.  If business owners have to pay workers more, they might also raise prices to   cover those higher labor costs.  Inflation can also happen when the demand for goods exceeds supply.  Then businesses selling those items can increase   prices.   Prices going up slowly is generally considered a good thing, especially if wages rise too.  It helps keep the economy dynamic and growing.  The U.S.   Central Bank has even a target inflation rate, 2 percent.  But inflation can quickly get out of control when governments print too much money to pay   for spending.   When not enough real value underlies that paper, prices surge, that`s called hyperinflation.  It happened in Germany, in Zimbabwe in the 2000s`   and most recently in Venezuela, and it`s the Fed`s job to make sure the United States keeps the inflation rate on track.   (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  10 Second Trivia.  Which of these names has not been used for a NASA mission?  Euclid, Galileo, Kepler or Ptolemy.  Though he was a real   astronomer and mathematician, Ptolemy`s name has not been used for a NASA mission.   NASA has a Center for Near Earth Object Studies and it studies, you guessed it, near Earth objects.  That includes an asteroid set to pass by the Earth   next Tuesday.  It`s named 7482 or 1994PC1.  I don`t know why all the numbers.  They could have just gone with Earl, and when scientists say it   will pass nearby.  It`s a relative term.   The rock will actually be around 1.2 million miles away.  So, 7482 or 1994PC1 is not expected to hit or threaten Earth in any way.  It`s also not   the biggest asteroid known to do this.  The one flying by on January 18th is about 6/10ths of a mile wide.   The biggest asteroid fly by on record was made by an object estimated to be between 2 and 1/2 miles and 5 and 1/2 miles wide.  It passed by in 2017.    Experts say people with clear weather and a telescope might be able to see 7482 or 1994PC1.  What if there is an asteroid out there that does threaten   Earth?  NASA currently has a $320 million mission that aims to see if it`s possible for a human made spacecraft to knock such a rock off its course.    Michael Holmes filed this report just before the mission launched last November.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  It`s a space story seen several times in the movies, like in the 1998 sci-fi film "Armageddon".   BRUCE WILLIS, ACTOR:  The United States government just asked us to save the world.  Anybody want to say no? HOLMES:  An asteroid threatens Earth.  The military, astronauts even oil rig drillers try to save mankind.  Some cities don`t make it but in the end   the planet survives.  A Hollywood ending which NASA is hoping to make a reality with its first planetary defense test mission.  Scientists say they   have identified the kilometer wide asteroids like those shown in the blockbusters, and there are no dangers of them hitting Earth in the coming   centuries.   But NASA says it wants to study what could be done if an Earth threatening asteroid is discovered.  A mission called DART, the Double Asteroid   Redirection Test, that will send an unmanned spacecraft into space and if successful, it won`t be returning home.  It`s destination a near Earth   asteroid named Didymos and its moonlet. NANCY CHABOT, DART COORDINATION LEAD:  These asteroids are not a threat to the Earth.   They are not a danger to the Earth.  They are not on a path to hit the Earth in the foreseeable future.  That makes them appropriate target for a   first test.   HOLMES:  Traveling at a speed of 6.6 kilometers a second, DART will then deliberately crash into the moonlet to try to jolt it from it`s regular   orbit.  Scientists back on Earth will monitor the collision using satellite imagery and ground base telescopes to see how much the moonlet changes   course.   ANDY CHENG, DART INVESTIGATION TEAM LEAD:  If one day an asteroid is discovered on a collision course with Earth, and we have an idea how big   that asteroid is and how fast it`s coming and it will hit, that kind of information.  Then we will have an idea how much momentum we need to make   that asteroid miss the Earth. HOLMES:  The targeted moonlet is a little larger than one of the pyramids in Egypt.  NASA says there are 10,000 known asteroids that are just as big   or bigger that could potentially cause major regional damage if they ever hit the Earth.  Although none of them are tracking this way.  DART`s   kamakazi mission could provide lifesaving data if anything ever does get too close.  Michael Holmes, CNN. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Back down to Earth in Central England.  Archeologists working on a future high speed railway route, recently made an amazing discovery from   the past.  These are the remains of what`s believed to be a Roman town dating back to the year 400 B.C.   Researchers think it was originally an Iron Age village, but then afterwards it expanded into a wealthy Roman trading center.  How do they   know this?  Well, the main road was a major clue. It was more than 30 feet wide, when most Roman roads were around 13 feet or narrower.   Historians say that indicates it was busy, with carts coming and going stocked with fruit, vegetables, animals, goods for trading.  In the town   itself, they discovered kilns for pottery, ovens for bread making, living areas for people and animals.  A lot of activity was reportedly happening   here.   People weren`t just "roaming" around if you know what I`m saying and the artifacts discovered include hundreds of Roman coins, jewelry and fragments   of pottery. Deep sea explorers searching for a World War II era shipwreck recently stumbled across something else, a rare type squid.  This is a big finned   squid, a relatively mysterious creature and it was spotted almost four miles under the ocean`s surface, about a mile deeper than anyone had seen a   squid before.   That`s significant because this is a predator and scientists say the fact that it was this deep indicates there are other species down here for it to   eat.   There weren`t too many there at the time though.  They had to "squid addle".  You won`t see fish food hanging out of the "mollusk".  They wanted   to "squid" while they were ahead.  Guess you "magnapin" it on their deep "seeded" fear of being on a "cephalopod cast".   I tried to think of a calamari pun for that but I just couldn`t "calamari" it to my script.  I`m Carl Azuz.  Today`s shout out goes out to Battle   Creek High School in Battle Creek, Nebraska.  Thank you for watching.  CNN returns tomorrow. END     

Date: 2022-01-14
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  It is Friday the 14th of January.  Thank you for taking 10 minutes for our show.  My name is Carl Azuz.  We are your down   the middle overview of world events. The U.S. Supreme Court was in the news Thursday for its rulings concerning two vaccine requirements by the U.S.   government.   In November, the Biden Administration said it would require businesses with 100 or more employees to either make sure those workers were fully   vaccinated against COVID-19 or to get a COVID test every week.  The government said the new rule applied to more than 84 million American   workers, about 2/3rds of the country`s private workforce. The president also announced that healthcare workers at facilities that get certain types of government funding would also have to be fully vaccinated,   without the option to test weekly.  The government said this rule applied to more than 17 million American employees.  The president said the mandates would result in millions of   Americans getting vaccinated and that they`d save lives and strengthen the economy, but 27 states sued the Biden Administration over the mandates.    They said the requirements were unconstitutional and that they`d cause staffing shortages in businesses and ultimately hurt the economy.   Concerning the mandate on businesses, the Supreme Court struck it down.  The majority of justices said the Biden Administration went too far.  That   the government`s job and health safety agency doesn`t have the power to require vaccinations for 84 million Americans.   In dissent or disagreement with the decision, three justices said it prevented the government from responding to the pandemic in the quote "most   effective way possible."  Concerning the mandate on healthcare workers, the Supreme Court said it could take effect, meaning healthcare workers at   facilities that receive Medicare and Medicaid funding can lose their jobs  if they don`t get a COVID vaccine.  The high court`s decision on the business mandate is considered a defeat to the Biden Administration`s   efforts to require vaccinations nationwide, but the White House said it still encourages businesses to put their own vaccine requirements in place. 10 Second Trivia.  Which of these U.S. cities was named for a Native American leader? Cincinnati, Ohio, Fayetteville, North Carolina,   Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, or Seattle, Washington. Chief Seattle, a Duwamish Indian leader is the namesake of the Washington city. Would you pay more than $1 million for a one-bedroom apartment in a tower that is leaning? We`re not talking about a historic tower, like the one in   Pisa, Italy.  We`re talking about the Millennium Tower in Seattle, Washington.  The $350 million structure was opened in 2009 and since then   as it settled into the ground, it has leaned a total of 24 inches to the west and almost eight inches to the north.   Is this normal?  Not these days.  The Millennium Tower`s uneven settling has caused cracks in the sidewalk and in the basement walls in the building   next door.  Why is this happening?  Experts say nearby construction projects and the removal of ground water contributed to the problem.  Is this safe?  Engineers say it is, but owners   aren`t happy and in a $100 million repair project, workers are installing new supports so shore up the building and help reduce its tilt.   (BEGIN VIDEO C LIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The sky has long been a fascination; a realm of the gods and civilizations have been building towards it for centuries.  But a   skyscraper is an altogether modern idea made possible by modern technologies.   CAROL WILLIS, DIRECTOR, THE SKYSCRAPER MUSEUM:  Skyscrapers are really an American invention.  The first use of the word was around the 1880s`.  They   were office buildings that concentrated a workforce.  They employ technologies like the elevator, like steel construction to build very   efficiently and to pile a lot of space onto a small piece of land.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  By using steel frame for structural support rather than heavy masonry walls, architects were able to get creative. WILLIS:  Skyscrapers began to get taller around the turn of the 20th century.  There was competition to be the world`s highest.  And that   chemical tower comes so intimately connected with modernity. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Skyscraper hitching post for the great airliners of tomorrow.   WILLIS:  The Empire State Building never actually (inaudible) but it gave that aspiration.  After World War II, a new kind of technology of glass   allows for the curtain wall.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Windows you could open made way for giant glass worlds.  They gave more floor space and natural light, but fresh air was shut out   and replaced with air conditioning.   WILLIS:  In the 1960s` and `70s, that was the period of the World Trade Center with the Twin Towers.  The Sears Tower in Chicago got a little bit   taller, but it was also the end of an era as American cities began to suburbanize and spread out.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The U.S. had led the charge into the skies, but the rest of the world soon caught up.   SIMON CHAN, ARCHITECT, B.H. ARCHITECTS:  In Hong Kong where the land is very sparse, going high is almost the only solution.  As that need in terms   of urbanization, so people need to move to cities they need to work.  In Asia and the Middle East, we took it to another level.  Every city wants to   have this landmark that give that sense of distinct culture. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  From the end of the 20th century, architects in the east have been developing new techniques to beat the wind and climbed even   higher.   CHAN:  We want to design the shape that is not square.  We want rounded corners or faceted corners so that it takes pressure off the building when   the wind hits it.  We design the building to sway a little bit.  We use reinforced concrete to have that flexibility, that also absorbs movement.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The Taipei 101 used a step design, cut out corners and a 700-ton suspended dampener to help it withstand typhoons and earthquakes.    But it was Dubai`s Burj Khalifa that redefined super tall.  It`s exaggerated take of shape ability to flex up to six feet at its top and a   double layered outer skin help it to counter desert storms and extreme heat.   WILLIS:  To build the world`s tallest tower is a great demonstration of technological know-how, as well as wealth of course, but the vanguard of   architects has been very focused on sustainability. CHAN:  We want to design something that`s as sustainable as possible in terms of the spaces that (inaudible).  Tall buildings is sustainable where   we can have a lot of people in a small footprint, but we all understand that building in itself is taking resources from the Earth. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  In cities like Hong Kong where skyscrapers dominate the environment, but also contribute significantly to greenhouse gas emissions.    The century`s old reach into the sky is now in question. WILLIS:  The skyscrapers become complicated negotiations between the way that we want to live in the future and the possibilities of how we can.    There are many different approaches of culture, of government, of public policy that either constrains or enable skyscrapers. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  A police rescue in Miami, Florida gets a 10 out of 10.  The call wasn`t about a person in distress.  It was about a dolphin in distress.  A   young marine mammal had gotten tangled in a fishing net.  A marine patrol officer sailed out to the dolphin, pulled it close to his boat and started   cutting the net to set the animal free.  The dolphin did not cooperate at first, but after a few patient attempts -- UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Got ya.  Woo.  Yes.   AZUZ:  It`s easy to "endorsal" such a rescue sensation.  It`s no fluke when something`s saved at sea from "ecolocation".  From the surface to the   coral, there`s no "quarrel about immoral" whether on the sea or "shoral".  If you don`t rest on your "laurels" you can net a mammal free from its tail   to its "pectoral".  Be forever in the "fin club" of every set free dolphin.  Use your melon, they`ll be "yellen" that Fridays are awesome.   I`m Carl Azuz.  Kellam High School gets today`s shout out.  Hello to our viewers in Virginia Beach, Virginia.  We will be off the air Monday for the   Martin Luther King Jr. holiday.  So, we`ll look forward to seeing you Tuesday right here at CNN. END     

Date: 2022-01-18
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. I`m Carl Azuz back in action for CNN 10. The reason we were off the air Monday is explained in just a few minutes.  But first, as we like to say in news, we are two and a half weeks from the start of the 2022 Winter Olympic Games. They`re taking place in the Chinese   capital of Beijing and they`ll make that city the first to have hosted both the summer and winter games. Almost 3,000 international athletes are   expected.  No fans from other countries are allowed and China announced Monday that tickets won`t even be sold to the Chinese public. Instead, the Beijing   Organizing Committee says people who meet China`s COVID requirements will be able to attend by invitation only. The rule was made shortly after China   confirmed its first case of the omicron variant of coronavirus.  It`s highly contagious but less severe overall than other forms of the disease. China has a zero tolerance approach to COVID though. The nation is   quick to lock down cities and block travel if a single COVID case is identified.  So, this strict policy in conjunction with the Olympics brings some unique challenges to the nation. Organizers say they`re holding the games in a   closed loop system. Only people participating in the events will be allowed at hotels, competition sites and official transportation vehicles. They   can`t have any contact with the general public. They don`t have to be vaccinated to be part of the Olympics, but those who warrant have to quarantine in Beijing for 21 days before they`re allowed to   move around. And anyone who tests positive for the disease will be put in isolation and prevented from participating in the games in any way. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DAVID CULVER, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Omicron breaching Beijing`s borders. A single case putting the Winter Olympics host city on high alert   China`s zero copied policy making no exceptions.  In the capital city, targeted lockdowns immediately activated, along with strict contact tracing. Chinese health officials publicized the infected   person`s recent travel history, starting with their home. We drove by the Beijing community where the woman diagnosed with omicron lives.  Remember, health authorities say all of this sparked by just one case at least for now. Oh, here we go. You can see here this is one of the entrances and exits. It`s gated off. They put these big blue barriers to keep folks from going   in and out. The woman`s neighbors allowed some fresh air, but confined to the complex. Their trash piling up waiting for specially designated disposal teams to   truck it out. Many nearby businesses closed. The woman lives a 15-minute drive from the Olympic Park. Not only where she lives that health authorities have it locked down but also where the woman works, which happens to be in a bank inside this   building. So out front you can see, they`ve got these blue tents set up where a lot of times they`ll do testing and processing before they can   finally declare it safe enough to reopen. But if you think it`s just a bunch of empty offices, look closer. COVID control staff carting in big boxes. Inside them, can you read that?   Pillows, bedding, people have actually been locked down at work. And these supplies might make their stay a bit more comfortable for what could be   days of testing. Omicron not only in Beijing. Cases also surfacing in several other Chinese cities, including Shanghai. Social media showing snap lockdowns trapping   shoppers at one store -- sounds extreme but most online voicing their support for the strict containment efforts. Less than three weeks until the Olympics and recent outbreaks had 20 million people sealed in their homes. Others bust to centralized   quarantine, state media showing these makeshift encampments built within days, mass testing is a constant.  Back in Beijing, I hopped in line for my regularly scheduled COVID test.  Test number 97, done.  But if you think the heavy measures have brought life here to a halt, most who are not traveling might say otherwise. On Sunday, crowds flocking to   this popular Beijing lake, frozen just in time for the Winter Games. David Culver, CNN, Beijing. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Since 1986, the third Monday in January has been observed as a federal holiday in America. It had been signed into law three years earlier   in remembrance of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., although several states and cities had been holding holidays of their own for years before that.  The American Baptist minister advocated for and participated in peaceful protests to achieve civil rights for African Americans. The marches,   parades and events held on Monday honored his legacy. The federal holiday is considered a day of service, though many Americans don`t have to work on   Martin Luther King Day. They`re encouraged to volunteer in community improvement projects.  Last year, some members of the Harvard Diversity Project shared some memorable and influential passages of Dr. King`s speeches. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Even though he faced the difficulties of today and tomorrow, I still have a dream. It is a dream deeply rooted in the American   Dream. We cannot walk alone. And as we walk, we must make the pledge that we shall always march ahead.  We cannot look back. There are those who are asking the devotees of civil rights when will we satisfy. No, no, no, we are not satisfied. We will not   be satisfied until justice rolls down like water and righteousness like a mighty street. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  How long will it take? Somebody`s asking, how long will prejudice blind division of men? However difficult the moment, however   frustrating the hour, it will not be long because truth crushed to earth will rise again.  How long? Not long, because mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord. He is trampling out the vintage where the vintage where the   grapes of wrath are stored. He has loosened the faithful lightning of his terrible swift sword. His truth is marching on.  He has sounded forth the trumpet that shall never call retreat. He is sifting out the hearts of men before his judgment seat. Oh, be swift, my   soul, to answer him. Be jubilant my feet! Our god is marching on. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Somewhere, we must come to realize that human progress never rolls in on the wheel of inevitability. It comes through the   tireless effort and the persistent work of dedicated individuals, who are willing to be co-workers with God, and without this hard work, time itself   becomes an ally of the primitive forces of social stagnation. And so we must always help time, and realize that the time is always right to do   right. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We mean business now, and we`re determined to get our rightful place in God`s world.  And that`s all this whole thing is about. We aren`t engaged in a negative protest or any negative arguments with anybody. We are saying we`re   determined to be men. We`re determined to be people. We are saying -- we are saying we are God`s children, and that we are god`s children, we don`t   have to live like we are forced to live. Let us rise up tonight with a greater readiness. Let us stand with a greater determination. And let us move on in these powerful days, these   days of challenge to make America what it ought to be. We have an opportunity to make America a better nation. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed. We hold these truths to be   self-evident that all men are created equal. I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia, the sons of former slaves and the sons of former   slave owners will be able to sit down together at the table of brotherhood. I have a dream that one day, Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heat   of injustice, sweltering with the heat of oppressed will be transformed into an oasis of freedom and justice.  I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they are not judged by the color of their skin but by the content of   their character. I have a dream today. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And when we allow freedom to ring --   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We let it ring from every village and every hamlet. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  From every state and every city. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We`ll be able to speed up the day when all of God`s children --   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Black men and white men --   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Jews and gentiles --   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Protestants and Catholics --   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Will be able to join hands and sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual --   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Free at last, free at last. GROUP:  Thank God Almighty, we are free at last. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  From a distance, this might have looked like a piece of plastic floating in Australia`s Great Barrier Reef. It was that bright. But when   the marine biologist who was snorkeling in the area approached it, she realized the animal was a rare blanket octopus, so rare it`s believed this   species has only been seen three times before. It`s about the size of a walnut and some of its eight arms are short and hidden in its blanket or   cape.  To call this observance a first might be a bit of Cape Flattery. But if you are off the cape coast and on the cape lookout for cape coral or anything   else you cape may find, why not blow your cape horn to show there`s nothing to cape fear, but that there`s cape of good hope that you captured a rare   species before you bid the cape farewell. It`s like an escape on your own cape caper. I`m Cape Coral Azuz. Fredericksburg High School gets today`s shout out. It`s great to see our viewers in Fredericksburg, Texas, commenting on our YouTube channel. Hope   to see you tomorrow. END     

Date: 2022-01-19
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  A volcanic eruption in the South Pacific headlines today`s show.  I`m Carl Azuz for CNN 10 and we`re taking you to   an archipelago named Tonga.  Located about 1,100 miles northeast of New Zealand, Tonga is a small island nation.  Its land area is less than a   third the size of Rhode Island.  Its population is around 105,000 and most of them live on the main island of Tongatapu.  It`s about 40 miles south of   where the eruption took place.   The country`s government declared a state of emergency after Saturday`s explosion.  Experts think it might have been the biggest eruption in more   than 30 years.  Satellite images and pictures from the air show trees, homes and fields covered in ash, and on Tonga`s main island it looks like   some buildings have collapsed.   But all of this is only part of the problem, the eruption caused a tsunami sending massive ocean waves across the Pacific.  Tonga`s prime minister   says some of these waves were almost 50 feet high.  These are tremendous forces of water.  They reportedly destroyed all the houses on at least one   Tongan island, other areas look like they`ve been devastated as well.   It`s just impossible to see how bad the damage is because communication lines were cut off.  Getting help to Tonga has been hampered by damage at   the capital`s airport, but officials say clean-up crews are making progress and fixing that.  New Zealand has sent two Royal Navy ships to the island.    They`re carrying relief supplies and a helicopter and they`re expected to arrive at the end of the week.  All of Tonga`s western islands are   volcanic.  So, this kind of activity is relatively common here, but an eruption and tsunami in this scale have caused major problems on Tonga and   far beyond.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) TOM SATER, CNN INTERNATIONAL WEATHER ANCHOR:  The first look at the damage.  Surveillance planes from Australia and New Zealand take to the skies to try   to assess just how bad the damage is in Tonga, after an underwater volcano erupted over the weekend, triggering tsunami warnings throughout the   Pacific with some waves reaching as far as Peru and the United States. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  But we know water is an immediate need. SATER:  Countries like New Zealand, Australia and China say they are standing by to send aid, but the scale of the devastation in Tonga is still   unknown.  Scientists say Saturday`s eruption could be the worst volcanic eruption the Pacific has experienced in decades.  Just a day before, the   volcano belted out an ominous warning of what was to come, shooting ash and smoke some 20 kilometers in the air.  But it was the voracity of the next   day`s eruption that unleashed waves of water around the world. In Tonga the swells at time reached heights of more than a meter high.  No mass   casualties have been reported so far.   One British woman is reported dead.  But the full impact of the volcanic blast is yet to be seen, since the country has been largely cut off from   the outside world.  The government says phone networks are working again, but international communication is limited because of damage to an undersea   cable which could take more than a week to repair.  That`s making it hard from some aid agencies to plan their next move.   ALEXANDER MATHEOU, INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS:  We`re roughly thinking up to 80,000 people could be affected, but how many of them are seriously   affected.  We don`t know. SATER:  Over the weekend large wave also hit the coast of Fiji, some 800 kilometers away.  Tsunami warnings and advisories were issued in parts of   New Zealand, Japan, Canada and the west coast of the U.S.  Coastal cities in Peru were inundated with knee deep water trapping people on the streets.    Police say two people died due to the abnormally high waves.  A force of nature, felt for thousands of kilometers.  Officials say they hope they`ll   soon get a better picture of what happened in Tonga where not even the volcanic island itself was spared.  Satellite imagery shows it has now   largely sunk into the sea.  Tom Sater, CNN. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  10 Second Trivia.  Who is the current U.S. Secretary of Labor?  Marty Walsh, Eugene Scalia, Elaine Chao or Janet Yellen.  On March 22nd of   last year the Senate confirmed Marty Walsh as Secretary of Labor.   The U.S. economy is in a strange place.  Wages have gone up, especially in lower paying jobs like those in hotels or restaurants, but in many cases   what people get paid is not keeping up with inflation.  The rise in prices and drop in buying power that at its highest rate in decades.  The U.S.   unemployment rate, a percentage of American workers who don`t have a job, that`s at 3.9 percent.   Its lowest point since the pandemic hit, and that would normally be a good thing but America still has the shortage of workers.  In some cases that   are available are different than the ones people are seeking, or they don`t pay as much.  Critics of vaccine requirements say they`re keeping workers   away, and some people only want jobs with a work from home option.  Here are some other reasons. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JON SARLIN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Where have the workers gone?  It`s a question politician, economists, journalists all have been asking.  Right   now the unemployment rate is low.  People are quitting their jobs in record numbers, but the time that it takes to fill an open position is the highest   that its been in decades.   So, what`s really going on?  Here are four reasons behind the labor shortage.  The first reason, daycare.  If you have younger kids, right now   there`s a shortage of daycare workers and that`s even if you can afford it with cost rising across the board.  Older kids were stuck at home during   the beginning of the pandemic learning remotely.  Even now, some schools are adopting a hybrid model which requires students to stay at home some of   the time. If kids aren`t in school, someone has to be at home looking after them.  Inevitably the burden of childcare falls more on women.  In one survey,   women cited as the second highest reason for not getting a job as having to take care of someone, a child or a parent.  The same survey, men cited it   as nearly the last.   The cost and complications of being a parent during the pandemic has led people to weigh the pros and cons of getting a job or staying at home.  For   many, getting a job just isn`t worth it.  The next reason, immigration.  So, in the U.S., we`ve seen immigration rates plummet due to COVID   restrictions and processing delays.   With fewer immigrants coming into the country, there are fewer immigrants able to enter the workforce and, in some industries, that`s had a profound   effect.  Take agriculture, in the U.S., immigrants make up 13 percent of the population but 73 percent of the agriculture industry.  Fewer   immigrants, fewer workers.   The next reason, benefits.  Now this is by far the most controversial of all the various reasons.  There`s a huge debate going on amongst   politicians, economists, policy makers, all about what kind of effect the various COVID government benefits have had on the workforce.  Things like   extended unemployment benefits, the stimulus checks, the child tax credits.   Now if you ask a business owner they will say, yes, it`s had a huge effect.  We just can`t compete with the government sending out checks especially   with low wage workers, but on the other hand many of those emergency benefits have already ended. The stimulus checks were one offs.  They`ve   already been spent by people.  The extended unemployment benefits in many states have been unextended, and yet we`re still seeing many workers decide   to stay at home.  The next reason, retirements.  Baby boomers are trading in their desk chairs for beach chairs.   Our labor force is getting older.  Over the last few decades, the average age of the worker has gone up three years and population growth,   immigration, all haven`t worked fast enough to counterbalance that trend.  So, we`re left with fewer workers in the workforce.  So, in some way this   was a trend that`s been going on for some time, but COVID has supercharged it.   In the 3rd quarter of 2021, more than half of the population age 55 and older are retired.  And unlike the last recession where we saw housing   prices plummet, now we`re seeing housing prices boom alongside the stock market.  And old people are statistically more likely to own these stocks   and houses that are now worth more money, so more money means more retirement. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  On December 6th of 1945 in the aftermath of World War II, a U.S. Army Sergeant stationed in Germany wrote a letter to his mother in the   states.  Nothing unique about that except that his letter got lost in the mail, and it didn`t turn up until 2021 at a U.S. postal facility in   Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.  The man who wrote it, John Gonsalves had passed away six years before that, but the postal service tracked down his widow   Angelina who`d shared 61 years of marriage to John after the war, and the letter was delivered to her home in Massachusetts 76 years after Sergeant   Gonsalves wrote it. ANGELINA GONSALVES, WIDOW OF SERGEANT JOHN GONSALVES:  I couldn`t believe and then just his handwriting and everything.  You know, it was just so   amazing. AZUZ:  You can`t say we mailed that in.  It`s an amazing story to the "letter".  As it "unfolded" you could read how it was "signed" in history,   "sealed" with sincerity, "delivered decages" later.  Yet still by "hand", just like it was written and still stamped for the low price of six cents,   an extraordinarily special delivery.  I`m Carl Azuz delivering today`s show to Barnegat High School in Barnegat, New Jersey.  Our You Tube channel is   the only place we look for the schools we mention.  That`s YouTube.com/CNN. END     

Date: 2022-01-20
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  It`s time for CNN 10 on this January 20th, 2022. My name is Carl Azuz.  It`s good to see you and we hope you`re doing well.    A new and bleak record has been set concerning drug overdoses in America. This month the U.S. Centers for Disease Control released estimates on drug   overdoses recorded between June of 2020 and June of 2021.   During that year long period, the health agency believes that more than 101,000 Americans died of a drug overdose.  If our reporting on this sounds   familiar, it wasn`t that long ago we covered the previous record for U.S. overdose deaths.  That had been set between the Spring of 2020 and the   Spring of 2021, and that was the first year long period when the number of estimated deaths exceeded 100,000.   So, the record we`re reporting on today accounts for almost 100,000 more deaths than the last one, and they amounted to a 21 percent increase over   the year before.  Most of these fatalities came from synthetic or manmade painkillers like fentanyl.  It`s an extremely potent opioid that`s many   times stronger than other painkillers.  Fentanyl was intended to be used for cancer patients or injured people in severe pain, but it`s also been   blended illegally with other drugs and sold to people who abuse them and its strength can cause an unintended overdose.   The U.S. government says illegal fentanyl has been seized in every state, but it`s not the only drug problem the country has.  Illegal cocaine and   methamphetamine accounted for about 30 percent of the overdoses in the CDC`s latest report, and the deaths caused from those drugs had increased   as well. So why is all this happening?  Drug abuse was a problem in America long before the COVID pandemic hit, but health officials say the pandemic likely   made things worse as an increase in deaths occurred during the lockdowns in the Spring of 2020.  Up next tensions involving airlines, wireless carriers   and the U.S. government.  Here`s what`s going on.   Fifth generation wireless technology, better known as 5G is being rolled out nationwide.  It promises faster internet connection speeds for   Smartphones and other computers.  The Federal Aviation Administration has been concerned that 5G antennas near some U.S. airports could potentially   interfere with certain planes altimeters which show how high they are off the ground. Airline carriers in the U.S. and beyond are also worried about this.  Wireless companies have said their technology is safe and that it`s been   deployed in other countries without problems.  But the president of Emirates Airlines says U.S. antennas have twice the power of those in other   country, and that they`re positioned in a way that could affect flight control systems.  Several international carriers have changed or canceled   flight plans to some U.S. airports.  The FAA says 62 percent of U.S. commercial airliners have been cleared for low visibility landings near 5G   antennas.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Major airlines call it the latest issue affecting your safety in the sky.  They say new high speed 5G cell service could cause   errors in crucial information that pilots need to land.  In a new letter to the Biden Administration, 10 airlines including Delta, American, and United   insist that could lead to as many as 1,000 flights diverted, delayed or cancelled each day.  A situation, they call, economic calamity.  Airlines   say that 5G signals can disrupt radar altimeters, instruments that bounce a radio beam at the ground to give a hyperaccurate reading of height.   Pilots like Captain Dennis Tajer of the Allied Pilots Association called the system essential when they need it most, in poor weather when it`s hard   to see the runway. CAPTAIN DENNIS TAJER, ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION:  This one instrument if it gets bad data sends it to a collection of other systems, flight controls,   auto throttles, windsheer protection, snake shake, I could go on and there`s 17 items.  Each of those if they get bad information in, they`re   going to do bad things. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  In this simulator of a regional airliner, I saw what happened when a radar altimeter fails.  Automatic warnings could stop and   flight displays give confusing, mismatched readings.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We just go around it. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And figure it out. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Right.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Verizon and AT&T have now agreed to delay their rollout near certain airports.  AT&T which owns CNN`s parent company, says airlines   and the FAA have not utilized the two years they`ve had to responsibly plan for this deployment.  Verizon says officials figured out how to make 5G   safe and fully operational in more than 40 other countries.  Even still, United Airlines feels interference would impact operations at some of it`s   busiest destinations, Houston, Newark, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Chicago. PROFESSOR EDUARDO ROJAS, EMBRY-RIDDLE AERONAUTICAL UNIVERSITY:  It is really important, especially to make sure that the airplane doesn`t crash   to the ground. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Professor Eduardo Rojas is researching 5G interference with radar altimeters at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Florida. ROJAS:  It`s one the most really air systems in the -- in the aircraft and helicopters.  Especially it helps to land.   (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  10 Second Trivia.  Fullerenes or buck tubes are forms of what?  Exhaust pipes, carbon molecules, aluminum or drainage basins.  Named for   American architect R. Buckminster Fuller, these are the names of carbon molecules.   Can carbon capture technology significantly reduce the amount of carbon dioxide in the air and improve the global environment?  There are more than   two dozen plants around the world that pull CO2 out of the atmosphere and bury it underground.  But a study and a report last year found they don`t a   meaningful impact in reducing the world`s CO2 emissions and that the technology isn`t worth the money spent on it. Still, supporters of carbon   capture say it`s one step towards reducing carbon dioxide. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Iceland prides itself on its use of renewables. The government says that about 85 percent of its total energy supply comes from   a mix of hydropower and geothermal sources.  That`s the highest proportion of renewable power for any nation in the world, but it`s also using this   renewable energy to capture and store CO2.   Carbon capture and storage or CCS is one of the many technologies the IPCC says could help reduce global warming and avert climate catastrophe, and to   do that these giant fans are sucking CO2 directly from the surrounding air just like a giant vacuum cleaner.   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The methods (inaudible) has developed is to minimize CO2 so essentially to turn CO2 into stone and for that we need a certain   kind of rock, volcanic rocks that (inaudible). UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This geothermal power station is where (inaudible) is working on the mineralization process, and these igloos are where it   happens.  The pipes here channel CO2 mixed with water, underground to a depth of around 800 meters or more than 2,600 feet.   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  These rocks are very permeable.  So, they act, kind of, like a sponge.  They have lots of pores and fractures for the CO2 to   have fluid to flow through.  It has been estimated that over 100 kilos of CO2 can be stored in each cubic meter. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The CO2 comes from two sources.  One is the geothermal plot itself.   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Geothermal is, of course, green energy (inaudible) from CO2.  This plot emits about three percent of a fossil fuel plant of   similar size would (inaudible). UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The second source of CO2 is the atmosphere, and this is where the fans come in.  The orca plot named after the Icelandic word for   energy is run by a Swiss company called Climworks.  They say it`s the world`s largest direct air capture facility.  It captures around 4,000 tons   of CO2 a year, but the global energy demand for 2021 alone is predicted to emit 33 billion tons.   Also, this method of carbon capture and storage is incredibly energy intensive, especially at the capture site.  And some critics argue that the   process will delay industries from making the switch away from fossil fuels.  Looking beyond Iceland, carb fixes have created a worldwide data   base to show where other vessel formations could be used to store CO2, and it`s also creating a plan for a fleet of specially designed ships to   transport it. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Is it a beauty mask or is it lunchmeat?  That is the question for today`s 10 out of 10 segments.  Oscar Myer is famous for bologna packages   that look like this.  But look closer, this here container holds a slice of skincare.  The meat company says this is for your face not your sandwich.    It`s a hydrogel mask being sold online that`s intended to improve your skin and it`s advertised as beauty inspired by bologna.   If your "pore" skin is feeling a bit deprived, why not step up to a counter where "lunch and care" collide.  You`ve arrived.  Let`s "face" it, when you   can take some meat and place it on your "noggin" while your "hoggin" on the meal on which they base it.  It`s like "food and poker"to come together in   a plan, which makes it "about face" that places "skincare" plan into a sandwich.   Can you beat it?  You can`t eat it for meat.  It`s just a phony.  But those hungry to feed their "face" will say it`s no bologna.  Never thought I`d   rap about lunchmeat.  That is almost a wrap for today`s show.  Want to give a shout out to Fairhope High School in Fairhope, Alabama, thank you for   watching.  I`m Carl Azuz. END     

Date: 2022-01-21
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Fridays are awesome.  Happy to have you watching. My name is Carl Azuz.  Washington, D.C. is our first destination   today. Just ahead of the one-year anniversary of his inauguration day, U.S. President Joe Biden gave a rare news conference this week.  Wednesday`s   event lasted almost two yours and covered a lot of subjects.   The president is first year has seen ups and downs.  Concerning the COVID- 19 pandemic, the U.S. leader came into office with the promise of defeating the virus and he said Wednesday his administration has overseen hundreds of   millions of vaccinations in America.  But despite that, corona virus continued to spread and claimed more lives in 2021 than it did in 2020 and   the Supreme Court recently struck down a Biden Administration requirement that 84 million private workers be vaccinated.   Concerning the economy, the president highlighted the addition of millions of jobs over the past year and the drop in the unemployment rate, the   percentage of American workers without jobs.  But he also acknowledged inflation was a problem, the rise in prices of the goods we buy.  It`s at   its highest level in decades.   Legislatively, President Biden signed a $1.9 trillion COVID Relief Bill and a $1 trillion Infrastructure Bill which had bipartisan support in Congress,   but a more controversial social spending plan he supported and a recent effort to overhaul voting laws in America both of those large-scale bills   failed in Congress.  President Biden suggested they could be broken up into smaller pieces of legislation that may have a better chance of passing. Concerning the withdraw of troops from Afghanistan, it was a troubled effort that saw evacuation problems, a deadly terrorist attack and a quick   takeover by Afghanistan`s former rulers.  The president said there was no easy way to get Americans out after 20 years of war in Afghanistan and that   he made no apologies.  But on another international front, involving a recent buildup of Russian troops near Ukraine something President Biden   said caused confusion in the U.S. and abroad. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JEFF ZELENY, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  As he begins his second year in office, President Biden bluntly predicting that Russia will invade Ukraine at least   to some degree.  At a news conference here on Wednesday on the final day of his first day in office, the president says he does believe that Vladimir   Putin will to some degree invade Ukraine but he first said a minor incursion would not necessarily be treated in the same way as a larger   invasion.   Well, less than an hour after this nearly two-hour news conference, the White House quickly corrected that comment, saying that any invasion, any   crossing over the land barrier would be considered an expanded invasions and tough sanctions would follow. Now the president was defiant and defensive about his record during his first year in office, talking about the jobs created some 6 million,   talking about the economic recovery after the COVID pandemic which of course is still raging high.  Also talking about that infrastructure law   and other programs, but he did acknowledge some shortcomings particularly in terms of COVID testing.  He said he wishes his team would have done more   earlier on that.   We also asked him if he has any sense of changing anything during his second year and he said he does plan to stand by all of his White House   staff.  But he said he would like to get out of the White House more, he would like out of the presidential bubble more, travel more across the   country, take his case to voters. He also said he does not want to be seen as a president/Senator, acknowledging that too often he was, sort of, weighted into these   legislative debates rather than being a leader.  So even after a half century in office, the president is still finding his footing here as the   46th American president.  But clearly making his case, defending his first year, but knowing the country wants to see him do better his poll numbers   indicate that.  The question year, this mid-term election year be any stronger.  Jeff Zeleny, CNN, the White House.   (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  10 Second Trivia.  What language`s alphabet has the fewest number of letters?  Afrikaans, Hindi, Tahitian or Nepali.  Of these options, Tahitian   has only 13 letters, the least of any language here.   And one thing they`re talking about in Tahiti whether i`s in Tahiti or the official language of French is the discovery of a previously unknown coral   reef.  It was located in November.  It`s almost two miles long.  It`s reportedly in impeccable and unharmed condition.  Scientists say that   something so large and so beautiful was just found, indicates how little we know about the world`s oceans.  The reef is located in what`s called an   oceanic twilight zone. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JENNIFER GRAY, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Divers ready their breathing equipment and down they go.  An amazing discovery before their eyes, a rare and   unique coral reef ecosystem found off the coast of the French Polynesian island of Tahiti.  At three kilometers long, the reef is one of the largest   in the world to lie at the depths of more than 30 meters.   The majority of the known coral reefs are found at depths of up to 25 meters.  This area of ocean is unique.  It`s middle ground between   shallower waters and the deep ocean floor, but still has enough light for coral to grow and reproduce.  These giants rose shaped corals are in   pristine condition.  Some reaching two meters in diameter.  Now the scientists are examining them in an effort to find out if there could be   other large reefs at the same depth yet to be discovered, but it`s not an easy task. JULIAN BARBIERE, HEAD OF MARINE POLICY, UNESCO:  That maybe one of the reasons we don`t find, you know, deep reefs, you know, because, you know,   the conditions for diving varies are quite complicated.  When you`re going over 40 meters to a deep 70 meters, you cannot go there with your usual   scuba gear.  You need some -- some special apparatus. GRAY:  For this expedition led by UNESCO, these divers are using state of the art, computer controlled breathing equipment known as rebreathers.  The   special helium-based gas mixture allows them to stay down longer and go down deeper.  The divers take photos of the reef during their mission while   also measuring and taking samples to study it further.  According to UNESCO, only 20 percent of the world`s seabed has been mapped. BARBIERE:  You can only protect what-- what you can measure and -- and -- and as we are trying to set targets for global ocean conservation around   the world, you know, this is the very information that you need to start, you know, establishing more protected areas in -- in the world GRAY:  This mission was only a first attempt.  More expeditions are planned in the coming months to further to investigate the reef.   BARBIERE:  Coral reefs is one of the most discovered ecosystems.  When we discover a major new jewel in the crown, it`s quite unique. GRAY:  Jennifer Gray, CNN. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Around the world in 155 days, when 19-year-old pilot Zara Rutherford arrived in Belgium Thursday, she landed two Guinness World Records.    Rutherford is the youngest woman ever to fly around the world solo and she`s the first woman ever to do that in a micro light aircraft.  She took   off from Belgium on August 18th and thought the trip would take around three months.  But bad weather and passport delays grounded her in several   countries, and various COVID restrictions often kept her from sightseeing.   The hardest part of the journey, she said, was in Siberia where it was 31 degrees below zero and a forced landing could have been dangerous.  But   Rutherford made it and she made history.  Her trip was funded by airports and sponsors according to the New York Times and it raised money for two   different charities.   Favorite snack in the world.  But this popcorn story is nuts.  At Disney`s Epcot Theme Park in Florida, there is an unofficial mascot named `Figment`.    The park recently released a commemorate popcorn bucket of `Figment` charging $25 for it, but even though some people are listing it for $200 or   more on eBay. It`s what they had to go through to get it that`s surprising.  Some folks waited seven hours in line to buy a purple plastic popcorn   bucket.  And you think I`m corny. Now some expected they`d have to line up in rows, but they were still amazed the wait was that long.  Guess they figured since we all came `ear`   to get it and we`ve starched it waiting, we`ll be the `stalk` of the town even if some people `corn` us.  It shows there`s more than a kernel of   truth to Disney`s lore.  That it`s not just a `Figment` of the imagination.   I`m Carl Azuz.  Today`s shout out goes out to Jeremiah Burke High School.  It is located in Dorchester, Massachusetts.  Thank you and everyone else   for watching and have a wonderful weekend.  This is CNN. END     

Date: 2022-01-24
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Falling and rising monetary measures kick off a new week of our coverage. I`m Carl Azuz. Welcome to the show. Crypto is   what`s been going down. Digital currencies or crypto currencies are not doing well right now. We`ve told you before how these forms of money are   volatile.  They`re historically valuable one day and worth a lot less the next, and a great example of that is Bitcoin. It`s the most famous and most valuable   crypto currency. Last November, one Bitcoin was worth $68,000. Last night, one Bitcoin was worth less than $36,000. It`s lost almost half its value in   two months. It`s not the only form of crypto, there are thousands of them but Etherium, the second most valuable digital currency has also lost   almost 50 percent of its value since November.  Others, in general, have dropped as well. So what`s causing this, a couple things. One because of their volatility, crypto currencies are considered   risky assets. They lose a lot of their value when inflation is high like it is now. So many investors are avoiding putting money into crypto because   they want safer bets. Also, crypto isn`t centralized. It`s not managed or controlled by a bank or a government.  Supporters of these currencies like that, they`d rather rely on a network of computers to determine crypto`s value. But some governments see it as a   threat to their own economies because they have less control over it. So China, for instance, has banned people from trading crypto currencies or   mining for them, and even though Russia is a hugely popular place for mining crypto using computers to validate new currency.  Its central bank has also proposed a ban on it and India`s government is looking at ways to regulate these currencies. So all of this can drive down   the value of crypto. Will it stay down? No one knows. Even though Bitcoin is valued at less than $36,000 now, American investment bank Goldman Sachs   thinks it will soar to over $100,000 sometime over the next five years. But the actions of investors, economies and governments can all influence its   value.  Now something that might be going up are interest rates. Why is that of interest? Well if you can`t pay the full cost of a car or a house all at   once, you borrow money. You take out a loan to make up the difference. A higher interest rate on your loan means you`ll have to pay back more money   over time. So if it costs people more to borrow, why might America`s central bank want to raise interest rates because that could help control   inflation. The rise in prices that the U.S. saw last year was seven percent over what it was the year before.  That`s America`s highest inflation in decades. If the Federal Reserve raises interest rates, fewer people are likely to borrow money and that can   slow down the economy and help bring down inflation. It`s a mixed bag for homebuyers. Many will be looking to borrow less money if they have to pay   it back at a higher interest rate. But if this means fewer people are shopping for a home, it could leave more homes to choose from. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Stu, hey man welcome.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Stu Kozlowski is on the hunt again.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Here we have two bedroom, two and a half bath.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He`s looking for a home in Los Angeles. Besides worrying about square footage, there`s low inventories, sky high prices and   bidding wars and now rising mortgage rates.  STU KOZLOWSKI, LOS ANGELES HOMEBUYER: There`s almost a point higher than they were when I made that offer (inaudible) escrow. So that`s a   significant jump.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This week a 30 year fixed rate loan is 3.56 percent. Back up to pre-pandemic levels, on the medium home price of $350,000   Americans can expect to spend $120 more on average excluding taxes and insurance than they did a year ago.  KOZLOWSKI: I think that effects the kind of homes I look at, that effects the neighborhoods I look at, that effects the, kind of, things I`m willing   to go and have conviction about that maybe I didn`t a month ago or a week ago.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mortgage rates are going up in anticipation of higher interest rates, which the Federal Reserve said would happen this year. In   just the last month, a 30 mortgage rose by a half a point.  JOE REICHLING, REALTOR, COMPASS: Every half point that mortgage rates rise, I think that definitely has an impact on what buyers are willing to do, how   far they`re willing to stretch on home purchase.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Rising rates will effect homebuyers in pricier coastal cities, where they`re more often right on the cusp of qualifying for a home   mortgage.  (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ: 10 Second Trivia. Which of these sports is the oldest? Marathon, Polo, Hurling or Ice Hockey. The lacrosse like game of hurling is the   oldest on this list, dating back to the 13th century B.C.  Wearable technology, or computerized clothing offers tremendous amounts of info about athletic performance but a lot of it is relatively expensive.   There are concerns about how long it will last and about what happens if a competing team were to get a trove of sensitive data about the team using   it.  When it comes to the Teslasuit, which is not related to the Tesla Car Company, the $20,000 price that one recently sold for is out of reach for   many. Wearable tech can`t provide the hard-work, ability, or talent it takes to succeed and it can`t measure heart. How hard athletes are willing   to push themselves beyond tired?  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: When in a match should I be exerting the most effort? How can I maximize my launch off the starting blocks? Which player is   flagging and needs to be substituted? These are the questions that players and coaches are asking themselves everyday and thanks to the data   revolution in elite sports. The answers could soon be right at their fingertips.  SIMON BARBOUR, PERFORMANCE ANALYST LEAD, LOUGHBROUGH UNIVERSITY: In terms of the scale of use it`s wearable technology. Every elite sportsman,   sportsperson and sports teams use wearable technology because it can be the difference between winning and losing. The margins are so small. The key   thing is it`s so fast evolving and that so many people and so many athletes are now using wearable technology. People are seriously disadvantaged by   not being part of that -- this revolution technologies.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: With firms like Statsports and Catapult leading the charge, sports technology will soon be a $40 billion industry with the   wearables and data collection sector worth around $8 billion. And as the tech advances, the growth is showing no signs of fatigue.  PAUL NIKEAS, VICE-PRESIDENT, TESLASUIT: We work with 80 percent of the EPL today. We`ve worked with every NFL team here in the U.S. 60 percent of the   Bundesliga at this point. So, you know, some 3,400 elite teams across the globe Catapult plays a -- in a big part of their daily workflows today.  For many years I think what wearables was going was really creating, sort of, the objective data of what`s happening on the grounds. How do I   measure, really, the exertion level of an athlete? Just descriptive data, but that evolution has really started to, you know, really change now with   more predictive, you know, algorithms, and ideally over time to prescriptive outlook. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So what will that transition from descriptive to prescriptive analysis actually look like? One piece of tech is already   emerging, from British based company Teslasuit who have developed a full body, haptic training suit that provides touch and forced feedback to train   and develop an athletes memory.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If you look at the haptics and because we do cover 95 percent of the muscle mass, we`re able to help correct any position that   changes within an understanding of -- of a fixed training perimeter, for example. So golf is a great example. How to effect the perfect golf swing?   What we can do by haptic notifications is you -- you would have that sensation on -- on your arm and your shoulder and across your chest. And   then when you are in the -- the right position, those sensations would stop. So you, kind of, get a guide of how to go back to perfect that   perfect swing.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: From F1 to karate to tennis, Teslasuit is already working in a diverse array of sports, to improve the skills needed for a   competitive edge.  (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ: Millie the rescue dog recently needed rescuing herself. She`d slipped out of her collar, runaway and gotten trapped in southern England`s Mud   Flats which can flood when the tide is high. Millie was there for two days and volunteers efforts to fetch her only scared her farther away, but then   someone had an idea. Why not tie a piece of sausage to a string, attach it to a drone and use that to try to lure Millie to safety? Amazingly it   worked.  I never saw such an idea like that. Some might have smelled a rat. Some might have "howled", there`s no (Inaudible), you can`t "retrieve" your lost   dog with nothing but a "hot dog" and some "dogged" deep determination, but use imagination. Just make a "lure" that`s cooked up, hooked up, processed   and cured.  What might seem a "boondoggle" fit for a "hound traverse" down some ground and turn lost to found. I`m Carl Azuz for CNN 10. We`ve got Mission Hills   High School watching today. Thank you for viewing our show from San Marcos, California and for your comments on our You Tube channel.    END     

Date: 2022-01-25
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi, I`m Carl Azuz.  It`s good to see you as always.  A dramatic increase in violent crime is challenging American   cities from coast to coast.  In early December, ABC News reported that at least 12 U.S. cities saw more murders in 2021 than they`d ever seen before.    That number rose to at least 13 cities after Milwaukee, Wisconsin joined the list.  Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Portland Oregon, Louisville,   Kentucky, Austin, Texas, Albuquerque, New Mexico, the problem was all over the map.   Experts and government officials have cited several reasons for it, problems rippling from the COVID pandemic, underfunded and understaffed   police forces, not enough crime fighting resources.  The U.S. government has set aside hundreds of millions of dollars for law enforcement and   community programs aimed at curbing crime, and state, city and community officials have promised action locally.   There were cities whose murder rate actually decreased last year according to the Washington Post.  They included Boston, Massachusetts and Dallas,   Texas.  Pharmacies in those cities and all across the country are expecting shipments of facemasks from the Federal government.  Specifically, these   are N-95 masks, health officials say they give the best protection against the spread of disease, 400 million of them are being distributed.  The   Biden Administration says it`s the largest deployment of personal protective equipment in U.S. history.  There`s no charge for them, though   critics say this is a government program and would be funded by tax revenue.   Some health officials have said the Biden Administration needs to do more to make COVID tests and masks available, but it`s been too focused on   vaccines. President Joe Biden says the N-95 masks are an important tool to stop the contagious Omicron variant of COVID.   There are indications that it`s slowing down in some places.  Infections and hospitalizations are decreasing, and while it`s infected both the   unvaccinated and the vaccinated some health experts are hopeful that Omicron might leave people with immunity to COVID in the future.   Across the Atlantic, the future is uncertain for the nation of Ukraine.  There`s been a conflict taking place there in the eastern part of the   country since 2014. People who want closer ties to neighboring Russia have been fighting against the Ukrainian government which wants closer ties to   other European countries.   Russia supports the side that wants independence.  NATO, an alliance of European and North American countries, support the Ukrainian government.    So, you can see how there`s international interest in what happens here.  Russia has gathered tens of thousands of troops near its western border   with Ukraine, and though Russia says it has no plans to invade the Ukrainian government and its allies are concerned that Russia will. The U.S. has sent weapons and military equipment to the Ukrainian government.  In December, President Biden said he had ruled out sending   American troops into a potential conflict there.  But last week, the U.S. leader said if Russia moved against Ukraine the U.S. would send troops into   the region, and this week America told non-essential staff and family members at a U.S. embassy in Ukraine to leave.   All sides involved have been holding meetings to try to calm down the situation.  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky says everything is under   control but at the same time his government is also building up its military presence in eastern Ukraine. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIPL) CLARISSA WARD, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  The Ukrainians don`t want to contribute in any way, shape or form to panic.  They`re worried that the local   population here will get nervous if they see that the U.S. is starting to evacuate some non-essential personnel and family members.   They`re worried that that projects an image potentially that they`re really is Russian aggression expected imminently.  But while everyone is waiting   for the diplomatic process to play out and -- and hoping that bears some fruit, there`s no question that very real preparations are being made on   all sides for the possibility of a military conflict. NATO has just announced that it will be sending additional resources, ships, fighter jets to deployments of NATO in eastern Europe.  That has   already been greeted by the Kremlin with a negative tone saying that this is increasing tensions.  The Kremlin also grousing about what they called   "informational hysteria" and accusing the Ukrainians of building up military personnel and hardware along the border with the Donbas Region   which is where those pro-Russian separates are based.   It would come to no surprise to many though that of course, the Ukrainians are building up their presence along their border there, because that is   exactly where many fear some type of incursion may occur if and when it does so.  So I think it`s a sense of people still hoping that the   diplomatic efforts might bear some fruit but preparing in the meantime for the worse as well.   (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  10 Second Trivia.  Which of these inventions was developed for the space program in the 1960s`?  Floppy disk, Memory Foam, Explorer 1   Satellite or Carbon water filter.  American engineer Charles Yost developed memory foam for NASA astronauts in the 1960s.   Freeze dried foods, portable hand vacuums, scratch resistant lenses, smoke detectors, not all of these inventions were created for space exploration,   but they all saw improvements under space programs that eventually made their way to store shelves.  Flash forward a few decades, the International   Space Station cost $150 billion to build and it takes several billion dollars to maintain it every year.  Critics say it hasn`t yielded enough   scientific advancements to justify its cost, but a European astronaut has been working to apply the resource it has conducted to modern life on   Earth. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) THOMAS PESQUET, ASTRONAUT, EUROPEAN SPACE AGENCY:  When you look at the Earth from the space station it`s absolutely magical.  It glows in blue and   it`s the most beautiful scenery you could possibly imagine.  When you take a step back and you see the Earth in its entirety, you understand that it`s   just an oasis in the cosmos.   All -- all around there`s nothing, no light.  It`s blackness, emptiness and there`s this -- this blue ball with everything we need to sustain human   life and life in general which is absolutely fragile, and it makes you want to cherish the Earth.  I`m Thomas Pesquet, an astronaut for the European   Space Agency.  I`m coming back from my second mission to space all on board the International Space Station.  So permanent laboratory that orbit`s the   Earth. Just like us on board the space station, the Earth is a space ship and -- and we are its crew.  It flies around the Sun.  It has limited resources.    It has some protection means but they can be overcome.  You don`t control the amount of resources that you have on board but you have to manage them.    What you can control, the way you care about the space ship, the way you maintain it, because you want the flight to be as long and peaceful as   possible.   I am an ambassador for the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations, but during my mission on the space station we had a lot of   research done on plants because space is a harsh environment for plants. By studying plants in the environment in space, then we can study how they can   resist to a draw to water scarcity and then we can feed all those results to research being made on Earth and create some more resistant crops.   Crops that will resist to climate change.  We`ve also worked a lot on all our packaging just like on Earth.  We`re trying to limit the production,   the use of plastic, the production of waste and so we came up with edible packaging which is just a -- such a fantastic and simple concept.  We need   foam to protect everything from shocks during launch into space.  So, what we did is we turned that foam into food like gingerbread.  Now our   packaging is at the same time a source of food.  It reduces the need to send cargo up.  It reduces the production of trash.  It`s -- it`s   brilliant. So hopefully that technology can also transfer to packaging on the ground and then we can reduce all our environmental footprint every time we go buy   something in a supermarket.  If we set ourselves on the right path, there`s nothing we cannot do.  We built that unbelievable facility in space.  We`re   using it every day.  Peaceful cooperation between countries that we`re not always friends and so if we can transfer that model to the way we deal with   the environment, I think we`ll get there.  I`m optimistic for the future.  If we can make a space station fly, then we can save the planet.   (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Ice bites, ice jams and ice pancakes sound like new menu items at "ICEHOP".  But these unique formations recently appeared in Lake Michigan,   not far from Chicago, Illinois and meteorologists say they`re of the ice pancake variety.  They form when chunks of ice start bumping into each   other as they float on the waves.  Eventually they get these round, raised edges and voila, ice pancakes.  Mother nature commonly serves these up in   the Arctic but it takes several days of subfreezing temperatures for them to form in the lower 48 states. For "coniceours", it sounds like an "ice" addition to a dessert menu.  It might include "icebox" cookies, apple "pice", pumpkin "piced" latte, "cold-  cross" buns.  Unless you`re a snowbird, everyone loves "frosting" so let`s go ahead and set the table with some fresh "picetries" or chocolate chip   "cookice", because that would be the "icing" on the "crepe".  From Springfield, Tennessee, we heard from Springfield High School on our You   Tube channel.  Thank you for your comments on Monday`s show.  I`m Carl Azuz.   END     

Date: 2022-01-26
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi I`m Carl Azuz.  Thank you for taking 10 minutes out of your Wednesday to watch our show. First topic, is the   Omicron variant of corona virus our ticket out of the worldwide COVID pandemic?  That is a question that epidemiologists around the world are   asking.  To be clear, no one knows yet.  Omicron is a mutation of the virus, more of those can emerge and they could be worse or better, but   there`s hope.  A British expert on infectious diseases says all viruses try to become endemic, meaning they mutate into something that`s regularly   found among people like the flu virus.  Several viruses have done this before.  They evolved into less severe versions of themselves and   eventually became some of the annual colds and influenzas people get.  When it comes to Omicron, it is less severe than other variants of COVID like   the Delta strain.  It`s still possible for people to be hospitalized with Omicron, but it`s far less likely and many who catch it have no symptoms at all.  One down   side to Omicron is that it`s incredibly contagious.  It`s likely to infect more people who are exposed, but even that has a silver lining because   health experts say that can provide natural immunity to COVID.  And they say immunity induced by vaccines can help protect people as well, what   remains to be seen is what COVID-19 does next.  Will it continue to change into something less severe that becomes a less dangerous part of our lives?    Or will a potential new strain of COVID be worse and trigger new health restrictions?  There`ve been large protests around the world about the ones   currently in place, but some countries are hopeful the worst is behind them and they`re moving toward easing or removing their COVID rules all   together.  China is not one of these countries. It has some of the strictest virus rules in the world, and as its capital of Beijing prepares to host the   Olympics starting next Friday, the city of 21 million has confirmed at least 67 cases of COVID in a recent outbreak.  Most of those cases were   identified as the Delta variant.  The government says six were caused by Omicron, but for the thousands of athletes preparing to compete in Beijing   in less than two weeks, the fear of a positive COVID test is now tightly tied to their Olympic dream.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) SELINA WANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  For Winter Olympic athletes just getting to Beijing is as nerve racking as competing for gold.  Nearly 3,000   athletes will be gathering under the world`s strictest COVID countermeasures.  They`ve trained their entire careers for this moment but   a positive COVID test could derail it all.   HANNAH SOARS, U.S. OLYMPIC FREESTYLE SKIER:  One positive test is going to do us in at this point.  It`s super stressful.  I didn`t know that I really   struggled from -- with anxiety to be totally honest until, like, the last couple months.   WANG:  U.S. Mogul Skier Hannah Soars and her teammates have been isolating in Utah for the past month.  They live in separate homes, socially distance   on the mountains, order groceries for delivery.  SOARS:  No one`s looked at each other, in the eyes.  I haven`t literally been inside anywhere besides this house for the past month.  WANG:  Soars even wears a KN-95 mask under her neck warmer on the slopes.   SOARS:  And so I just treat everyone like they have COVID, and it creates a lot of anxiety in my life but hopefully gets me to China.   WANG:  Athletes need to test negative for COVID twice before boarding a plane.  Once within 96 hours and another within 72 hours before departure,   then daily tests in Beijing.  Organizers are relying on sensitive PCR tests, which means recently recovered but healthy athletes could   potentially be isolated or barred from competing.   WILLIAM SCHAFFNER, PROFESSOR AT VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE:  They`ve gone to the public health extreme.  That test is so sensitive it is   nearly picking up remnants of the virus.  You are not contagious to anyone else.   WANG:  Organizers aren`t taking any chances.  The host country is sticking to its zero COVID policy where just one case can trigger lockdowns and mass   testing.  During the Tokyo Summer Olympics here, 41 athletes tested positive for COVID at least two dozen had to withdraw from competition.    Now with Omicron and even stricter rules at the Beijing games, it`s inevitable some athletes are going to lose their chance to compete.  A   positive test could send an athlete into isolation at a facility in China until they get two consecutive negative tests, which experts say could take   weeks.  Olympians will be completely separate from the rest of China, part of what organizers are calling a closed loop system.  Multiple bubbles   connected by dedicated shuttles.  Then there`s the mountainous venues, Yanging and Zhangjiakou, north of Beijing all connected by high-speed   rails.  British skeleton racer Laura Deas was in Yanging last fall for training.      LAURA DEAS, BRITISH SKELETON RACER:  Everything that we did we, you know, training, eating, (Inaudible) was all within this bubble, but if felt   incredibly organized.  WANG:  Ahead of the games she self-isolating in the UK and getting creative training without a gym.  While Deas knows what to expect in Beijing, it`s   the next few days that are the most tense.  DEAS:  I`ve jumped all these hurdles over the past few years to get to this point and I`m just, you know, just trying really hard to do all the right   things now so that I can get to Beijing safely without COVID.  WANG:  For athletes this year just stepping foot into the Olympic bubble will be a victory.  Selina Wang, CNN, Tokyo.   (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  10 Second Trivia.  In February 1961, James Webb was appointed as NASA Administrator by what U.S. president?  Dwight D. Eisenhower, John F.   Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson or Richard Nixon.  It was President Kennedy who appointed Webb in 1961 not long after Kennedy was inaugurated.  Webb said he didn`t think he was the best person for the job.  He wasn`t an engineer or a scientist, but President Kennedy thought he`d be good at   handling the policy side of NASA and Webb oversaw the agency for more than seven years in advance of the moon landing.  He`s the namesake of the James   Webb Space Telescope.  NASA launched it on Christmas Day and it just reached its orbit this week.  That orbit is around the Sun.  The Webb   Telescope is a million miles away from Earth and scientists say that that position will give it an advantage over the Hubble Telescope because that   instrument which does orbit the Earth is constantly moving in and out of the planet`s shadow.  Webb`s location should give it a more unimpeded view   and its technology, Webb is an infrared telescope.  That should help it detect the faintest signals of light from a distant universe.  The   spacecraft cost $10 billion.  It will be adjusting its instruments in the months ahead and is expected to start sending its first pictures back to   Earth this summer.   In terms of people working for it, Walmart is the largest, private employer in the United States.  It has 1.5 million employees in American and a total   of 2.2 million working for the company worldwide.  In the 2021 Fiscal Year, the company`s revenue was $559 billion and a boy who`s less than two years   old recently helped with that.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) PRAMOD KUMAR, TODDLER AYAAHSH KUMAR`S DAD:  Can I have my phone please?  JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  He`s like a little king on his throne, throne of boxed furniture and somehow managed to order from Walmart   totaling $1,786.  No wonder his dad added a tag line, I love shopping.   P. KUMAR:  My wife was thinking I did it but I was thinking that she did it.   MOOS:  It turned out he did it.  His mom had placed a dozen or so chairs in her Walmart shopping cart intending to pick out a couple later, but 22   month old Ayaahsh Kumar ordered everything using his Mom`s phone.  His parents didn`t realized until -- P. KUMAR:  The people are coming with the boxes, lot of boxes and they were just dropping, so one box came, two box came.   MOOS:  Now there`s a giant pile of boxes at their Monmouth Junction, New Jersey home unopened because they hope to return most of it.  Walmart seems   willing.  MADHU KUMAR, TODDLER AYAAHSH KUMAR`S MOM:  The customer service person she was laughing so much.  Oh my god.  MOOS:  But they won`t return everything.  P. KUMAR:  We are thinking of keeping a few items as a memory.   MOOS:  A little souvenir of his first shopping spree.   (CROSSTALK) MOOS:  The Kumars removed their debit card from the account so Ayaahsh can`t do anymore damage.  As for the $1,786 -- well you got a lot of chairs   for that.   M. KUMAR:  Yes.  (Inaudible). MOOS:  They`re even letting the neighbors know that this the home of the world famous New Jersey toddler and little rockstar.  When someday their   son hears, "Attention Walmart Shoppers", that means you kid.  Perhaps the youngest Walmart shopper.  Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Attention Walmart shoppers, maybe it seems time we should give that kid some more "limited screen time".  Empty out the cart and shut down the   cell phone.  Someone that "Walsmart" will order you more new home furnishings, "burnishing" his reputation.  As a savvy shopper despite high   "inflation", he`ll target your device so you better "cost go get it" lest you leave you nothing else to "debit or to credit".  All right.  Indianola,   Iowa is our last stop today, want to give a shout out to you our viewers at Indianola High School.  Thank you for watching.  I`m Carl Azuz for CNN.     END     

Date: 2022-01-27
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  We`re taking a ride in a flying car today.  So, buckle up ya`ll as CNN 10 gets off the ground.  This is your captain, Carl   Azuz. We`re starting with a new report from the U.S. government.   In the months ahead, the Commerce Department says America could see more factory shutdowns and furloughs, workers sent home without pay, but it   wouldn`t be because of the new corona virus outbreak.  It would be because of the global microchip shortage we told you about last year.  The problem   hasn`t gone away.  In 2019 before the pandemic, American manufacturers that needed computer chips to make their goods had plenty of semi-conductors on   hand, about 40 days` worth.   According to the new government report, that inventory was down to less than five days` worth in 2021.  That means they may soon run out of the   chips they need to make things like cars.  General Motors, for instance, had to temporarily shut down most of its plants in North America last year   because it didn`t have enough chips on hand to make vehicles.  Other electronics like Smartphones, appliances like washing machines, there have   also been shortages and in some case, price increases on these items as the chip problem persisted.   It was caused in the first place by concerns and closures related to COVID outbreaks. Then some manufacturers thought the economy would slow down, so   they pulled back on their orders but demand for electronics actually went up during COVID as people at home bought more and more devices.  So   suddenly the computer chips needed to make those devices were in short supply.  Some chip manufacturers are planning to invest billions of dollars   into building new plants which could help. Most of the chips America relies on are made in Asia.  Though the U.S. used to manufacture more than a third of the world`s semi-conductors, it only   makes 12 percent of them now days.  A bill in the U.S. Congress would spend $52 billion to help support chip manufacturing in America but it hasn`t   passed yet and critics say microchip makers should spend their own money to do that instead of getting taxpayer funds through the U.S. government.  Its   latest report expects the shortage to remain through most of this year.   10 Second Trivia.  This the flag of what nation?  Chile, South Africa, Kenya or Jamaica.  One of only two national flags with six colors, this one   represents South Africa. Taking a chunk of land and making it how it used to be, bringing back species that used to live there, these are the goals   of rewilding.   There are some risks to this.  If the plants and animals that are reintroduced to an area have already adapted to another one, it`s possible   they won`t thrive in a place of rewilding.  If people live nearby, they could face new dangers if the relocated animals are aggressive.  There are   also ethical concerns about trying to re-establish different species in a place they`re no longer found.  But when things go right -- (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ISABELLE TOMPKINS, SAMARA PRIVATE GAME RESERVE:  The word conservation means to keep things the way they are.  It means to prevent things from   getting worse.  But rewilding has a much more ambitious meaning and I think the planet deserves a more ambitious (inaudible) at this point and time. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Located in South Africa`s Great Karoo Region, the Samara Private Game Reserve was established by Isabelle Tompkins`s parents   Sarah and Mark Tompkins in 1997.   TOMPKINS:  What rewilding seems to do is to restore ecosystem health by reintroducing all the component parts of that system, essentially   reintroducing all the pieces of the puzzle.   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Spanning 67,000 acres the park is home to five of South Africa`s nine vegetation bios and the team says it has over 60   different species of mammals.   TOMPKINS:  We`re located in a global by diversity hotspot.  So despite being a semi-arid region, there`s actually a remarkable amount of   biodiversity particularly endemic plants and also certain endangered species like the Cape Mountain zebra, the cheetah, the black rhinoceros.   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  In 2019, the Tompkins family reintroduced lions to the reserve after an absence of almost two centuries. TOMPKINS:  When you think of Africa, you think of a lion.  There`s no feeling more primal than walking in the bush knowing there are lions   around.  You feel all your ecological senses tingling.  It`s -- it`s almost like a rewilding of itself.  We`re seeing (inaudible) private land at the   moment an incredible sightings. One of the best sightings I`ve ever had actually and seeing our new little cub for the first time which is really, really exciting.  And in terms of   rewilding, it`s not just about the about bringing back a species that existed maybe 300 or 400 years ago, as wonderful it is to see them back in   their natural habitat. Rewilding, as I said, about bringing back the ecosystem and for lions being an apex predator quite clearly one of the   main roles is the role of (inaudible) and if you look around us you will see a lot -- a lot of skulls from some rather unfortunate vertebrates that   have seen.  I guess lion food over the past few years, but -- but it`s a key role really that they play in controlling herd numbers and enabling the   (inaudible) itself very palatable and grasses to actually regenerate itself as well.   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  From the mighty lion to each and every blade of grass, it`s all connected.   TOMPKINS:  So human beings tend to want to compartmentalize nature.  We want to divide it up into cells and units that we can understand, but   nature doesn`t really function like that.  Nature works as a whole system and various elements can impact on each other in ways that we don`t even   understand yet. One of the central principles of rewilding is actually to manage an ecosystem less.   It`s to -- to give nature back to nature.  Give nature back to itself.  We need to take a step back and sort of realize that we`re a part of nature   rather from apart from it. I think that if human beings can focus on their own sphere of influence and on making a difference in their own little   backyard.  Our backyard just happens to be 27,000 hectors of great (inaudible) landscape and -- and what a privilege for us to actually be   able to spend our time improving this landscape and making it work for -- for both people and planet. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  This isn`t the first time we`ve reported on a flying car and the one you`re about to see isn`t the first one to get approved by a country`s   government. Last year the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration certified the Terrafugia Transition as airworthy.  That happened shortly before the   company`s work was moved to China.  It`s one challenge to develop a car that can fly.   It`s another to get government approval to do it.  Then, companies have to bring to market. These vehicles tend to be very expensive and you need a   pilot`s license and an airport runway for take offs and landings.  You can`t legally do that on the interstate.  But with traffic congestion on   the ground and open skies above, plus an undeniable cool factor, you could see why someone would want one of these. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ANNA STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Just imagine, you`re stuck in traffic but with a touch of a button your car grows wings and you can fly right out of   it. Sound like a dream?  Well actually this is edging ever closer to a reality.  After more than 70 hours of test flights and 200 take offs and   landings, the Air Car has received a certificate of air worthiness from Slovakia`s transport authority.   Now during those test flights, takeoff and landing procedures were actually achieved without a pilot even touching the flight controls.  That is   according to the Air Car`s developer Kline Vision.  It`s flown between two cities in Slovakia landing in a (inaudible) airport where upon it   transformed into a car and drove straight into the cities center which is pretty cool. Now there are a few flying cars around in development around   the world.   Mostly they`re waiting for regulatory approval.  Some though, are already for pre-order like Dutch company Power V.  Now their entry level model is   priced at $400,000.  Flying cars have become a regular sight actually at tech shows and car shows.   The Air Car`s developer actually hopes to have it commercially available within the next 12 months, but there is one small catch.  You need a   pilot`s license to operate it which means unfortunately I won`t be flying one anytime soon.  Anna Stewart, CNN, London. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Hey, if you got the license, the clearance and money to "land it" it`d be fun to say my lane is the "sky lane", my street is the "high   street".  My way is the "sky way".  My road is the "high road".  My highway is the "flyway".   You try to control traffic, I call it "air traffic control" and when I fly I don`t mean to look down on you, but I can`t help it.  I`m Carl Azuz for   CNN 10.  Marksville High School is in Coos Bay, Oregon.  The Pirates "arrrrrgh" watching and they know how to get a shout out.  Subscribe and   leave a comment at YouTube.com/CNN.   END 

Date: 2022-01-28
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Looking forward to the weekend and bringing you up to speed on current events. This is CNN 10 and I`m Carl Azuz. We`re   thankful you`re watching. Thursday, January 27th marked the 77th anniversary of when the Auschwitz-Birkenau Concentration Camp was liberated   during World War II. Located in Poland, this complex was the largest death camp that Nazi Germany had. More than 1 million people were killed here in   the early 1940s` and Auschwitz still stands today as a symbol of terror and the holocaust. The vast majority, an estimated 90 percent of those murdered   here were Jews. They were among the 6 million Jews the Nazi`s killed during the world. Millions of others the Nazi`s opposed were killed as well.   That`s why the date of January 27th when Auschwitz was liberated by the Soviet Army has been designated as International Holocaust Remembrance Day.   It`s marked each year by ceremonies and educational events designed to preserve awareness about it, oppose arguments that deny the holocaust and   prevent future act of genocide.  A letter written shortly after the holocaust ended made news just a few months ago. At a flea market in New York, an author who investigates   heirlooms recently came across this document. It was written by Elsa Lowenberg (ph), a woman who jumped from a moving train bound for Auschwitz   in 1943. According to ABC News, Lowenberg (ph) spent three days walking back to Berlin. She hid out there until she was recaptured in 1944 and she   was held in prison until the summer of 1945. That`s when she penned this letter to her sister who had immigrated to England before the war. Elsa   (ph) told her that the rest of her family had been killed, but the sisters reunited and eventually settled in New York and the letter was recently   returned to their great niece who remembered Elsa (ph) and said her family was in awe.  Up next today, a U.S. Supreme Court justice looks toward retirement and the government looks toward the nomination of his replacement.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN: I`m here today to express the nation`s gratitude to Justice Stephen Breyer for his remarkable career of public service, and his   clear-eyed to making our country`s laws work for its people.  (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ: After serving almost 14 years as a court of appeals Judge Stephen Breyer was nominated to the Supreme Court by President Bill Clinton in   1994. Justice Breyer who`s now 83 made his decision to retire official this week, saying he planned to serve until the end of the courts current term   in June assuming his successor has been confirmed by then. In a public event Thursday with President Joe Biden, the high court justice said   despite American`s many different viewpoints. They`d come to accept the importance of the rule of law, and he referred to the idea and the views of   some previous presidents that America is an experiment.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JUSTICE STEPHEN BREYER, U.S. SUPREME COURT JUSTICE: You know who will see whether that experiment works. It`s you my friend. It`s you Mr. High School   Student. It`s you Mr. College Student. It`s you Mr. Law School Student. It`s us but it`s you. It`s that next generation and the one after that. My   grandchildren and their children, they`ll determine whether the experiment still works and of course I am an optimist and I`m pretty sure it will.  (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ: The U.S. Constitution doesn`t set a limit for how long justices can serve on the Supreme Court. It says only that they should hold their   offices during good behavior. But 2022 is an election year, the mid-terms held in November will determine the make-up of the next Congress. So   Breyer`s been under intense pressure by Democrats to retire during this term, because right now they control the White House and the Senate. The   two parts of the government that nominate and confirm Supreme Court justices and that gives Democrats an easier path to sitting the justice of   their choice. Breyer is considered a liberal justice which Democrats generally favor on the high court while Republicans generally favor   conservative justices.  And though President Biden isn`t up for re-election this November, his recent approval rating reached an all-time low. That`s part of the reason   why Democrats may lose their narrow Senate majority in the mid-terms and that`s why they want to confirm another liberal justice before that could   happen. We`ll be explaining next week how the nomination and confirmation processes play out. But right now, we`re having a look at who may be likely   to get the Supreme Court nomination in the days ahead.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The big question now who will President Biden pick? On the campaign trail in 2020, then candidate Biden vowed to make history and   nominate the first black woman to the bench.  PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN: I`ve committed that if I`m elected president, have an opportunity to appoint someone to the courts. It will be -- I`ll appoint   the first black woman to the court.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The likely frontrunner Judge Ketanji Brown-Jackson, a Federal Judge and Former Supreme Court Clerk for Breyer.  SENATOR DICK DURBIN: We will start with Judge Jackson.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She was vetted by Biden and his team just last year and comfortably confirmed to the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals with three   Republicans joining Democrats in support.  JUDGE KETANJI BROWN-JACKSON, D.C. CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS: When you become a judge, you take an oath to look only at the law in deciding your cases.   That you set aside your personal views about the circumstances -- UNIDENTIFIED MALE: A close second choice is California Supreme Court Justice Leondra Kruger. A former acting deputy solicitor general in the   Obama Administration. She once clerked for the late Justice John Paul Stevens and has argued cases in front of the high court.  JUDGE LEONDRA KRUGER, CALIFORNIA SUPREME COURT JUSTICE: Oral arguments doesn`t very often change the outcome of cases, occasionally it does.   Occasionally oral argument reveals a new dimension. It is also in the United States Supreme Court, the first time that all the judges sit down   together.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Other names circulating Minnesota District Court Judge Mimi Wright, outgoing NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund President   Sherrilyn Ifill, Second Circuit Court of Appeals Judge Eunice Lee, 7th Circuit Court of Appeals Judge Candace Jackson-Akiwumi and South Carolina   Judge Michelle Childs, who has the backing of House Majority Whip James Clyburn. The man who convinced Biden to publicly pledge to nominate a black   woman.  REPRESENTATIVE JAMES CLYBURN, SOUTH CAROLINA: She has the kind of diverse background in life and education and work. An incredibly smart woman that I   believe would do well.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The eventual nominee will face a high-profile confirmation process with the 2022 mid-terms looming. Senate Democrats   don`t need Republicans to confirm Biden`s nominee, but Republican opposition could still be a factor.  SENATOR MITCH MCCONNELL, SENATE MINORITY LEADER, KENTUCKY: We don`t even know who the nominee is yet. So, that`s something the president has an   opportunity to make should there be a vacancy.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Whoever is picked, Breyer had this to say about the job.  BREYER: Really when you put on that black robe, you understand whatever the appointments process, however politically involved it was. Once you put on   the robe as a judge, you`re a judge and that means you`re a judge for every person.  (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ: 10 Second Trivia. Which of these animals is an example of a chelonian? Squid, Sloth, Tortoise or Crab. Chelonians include turtles,   terrapins and tortoises.  Happy Birthday dear Jonathan. I`m singing to a tortoise. He lives in Saint Helena, a remote island in the South Atlantic. He`s making news because   he`s old. How old is he? Jonathan the giant tortoise is celebrating his 190th birthday. Guinness World Records says he`s the oldest chelonian ever   known. For reference, when he was born in about 1832, electric light bulbs didn`t exist, Britain`s Queen Victoria was a teenager and no one had ever   been photographed. But Carl, you might say, I see a picture right here. Yes, from when Jonathan was 50 but there`s no record of his birth. So,   Jonathan could actually be as old as 200.  What a "turtale"? "Turturtell". Of course, he never lived life in the fast lane. He ate a lot of fruit and he stayed out of soup so maybe you could   "terrapin" his longevity on that. For reference, the average lifespan of a rabbit is between three and 12 years. So Jonathan won that race by more   than a "hare". Woo. Friday`s are awesome. Bear River High School gets today`s shout out. It`s great to see our viewers in Tremonton, Utah. I`m   Carl Azuz for CNN. END 

Date: 2022-01-31
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Blizzard conditions in the true sense of the word.  What does that even mean?  That is our first subject on this last   day of January.  I`m Carl Azuz.  Welcome to the "snow", the show.  January 1987, Atlantic City, New Jersey sees a record amount of snowfall, 20.3   inches.  January 2022, the cities monthly record is shattered with 33.2 inches of snow.  A lot of that was the effect of a winter storm that broke   snowfall records all across the Northeast, with 14 inches on Saturday alone, Atlantic City doubled its one day record.  Boston, Massachusetts,   New York, New York, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, they all saw their snowiest day ever on Saturday.  Roads were treacherous.  Almost 3,600 flights were   cancelled on Saturday alone.  The Nor`easter, a storm with winds out the Northeast brought gusts as high as 40 miles per hour.  That`s the strength   of a tropical storm.   The flood waters that spilled into part of Massachusetts were four feet high and the wind chills it left behind in the region on Sunday dropped   below zero degrees Fahrenheit.  This was not a good time to lose electricity, but more than 88,000 homes and businesses in the Northeast did   see their power go out Saturday according to PowerOutage.us.  Those numbers had improved a lot by Sunday afternoon though.  Snow followed by below   freezing temperatures dipped as far south as Myrtle Beach, South Carolina and though the weather`s expected to warm up as the week gets underway.    There`s another winter storm coming.  It`s expected to start hitting the Mid-West on Tuesday night and bring colder temperatures across the east by   next weekend.  As many people in states like Massachusetts and Rhode Island dig out from this weekend`s weather, they might be wondering if they were   hit by a bonafide blizzard.  The answer is yes.    (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) PEDRAM JAVAHERI, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  You hear it all the time.  It`s one of the most overused terms in weather.  A blizzard warning and blizzard   conditions have be signified when you have snow coming down.  You have your winds.  They`re at least at 35 miles per hour or greater, and your   visibility`s reduced to under a 1/4 of one mile.  And not only do you have to have all these in place, you have to have this happening for at least   three hours or a longer period of time for a blizzard warning to be issued.  One thing to note with blizzard conditions is once the storm moves, even   when the snow has stopped falling you could be experiencing blizzard like conditions because the winds will be howling across the area.  So any sort of drift snow that has been on the ground there will be blown right in front of you and that will cause disruptions as far as visibility   once again coming down, even though the storm is long gone you will still be experiencing blizzard conditions.  Now a fascinating study was done back   in 2002 looking at the most prone area across the United States where blizzards occurred and most frequented areas for blizzards were areas   around the Dakotas, western Minnesota, onto Wyoming and eventually eastern Colorado.   That region saw the highest likelihood of blizzards every single year, but they also show it about 2.5 million people per year experience these   blizzard like conditions.  Like you displace that into the upper Mid-West, take into Chicago or take it into the Northeast into Boston, Philadelphia   or New York.  Now you`re talking about tens of millions of people being impacted by blizzard conditions and that is when this story becomes very   dangerous for a lot of people.      (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania has 446 bridges, more than any other city in the United States and one of them collapsed last Friday morning just   hours before President Joe Biden was scheduled to visit Pittsburgh.  It happened sometime between 6 o`clock.  Officials say four vehicles were   crossing it at the time and 10 people were hurt in the collapse.  First responders repelled down to the victims to help them and also formed a   "daisy chain" by holding hands to get people out of the valley.  The collapse broke a natural gas line in the area and there were reports of   some people feeling sick from inhaling the gas, but no one was killed.   And a Pittsburgh City Council member said it was fortunate that the collapse didn`t happen a little later in the morning because hundreds of   cars might have been involved if this had occurred during rush hour.  President Biden did complete his trip there Friday.  Ironically he was in   Pittsburgh to discuss infrastructure, the nation`s buildings, roads and bridges.  He talked about the collapse in his speech.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN:  It had been rated in poor condition for the past 10 years.  What you all know, if you don`t you should know there are another   3,300 bridges here in Pennsylvania with -- some which are just as old, and we`re going to rebuild that bridge along with thousands of other bridges in   Pennsylvania and across the country.   (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  The president has signed a bipartisan $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill last November, but critics say that not nearly enough of that money   has been set aside to repair the nation`s bridges.  And the one that collapsed Friday was not originally on the government`s list for   improvements according to NBC News.  It was last inspected in September.  A fire chief said despite its poor rating, officials hadn`t been concerned   about it before the collapse.  The National Transportation Safety Board sent a team to the sight to try to figure out exactly what went wrong.   10 Second Trivia.  What is the world`s largest airline?  American Airlines, China Southern Airlines, Delta Airlines or Lufthansa.  By several different   measurements including fleets and seats, American is the largest airline in the world.  We`re talked about the ongoing labor shortage in America.  Help is also wanted in the skies above it.  Airlines in the U.S. expect to need at least   12,000 pilots by next year and even more after that.  Not enough pay, long and expensive training, furloughs, being put on leave without pay, these   are some of the major complaints pilots have had over the years.  Airlines are raising salaries and making changes to address these issues, and one   major carrier has launched its own program to help train new pilots.  Over the last few months, United Airlines has faced lawsuits over plans to fire   roughly 600 people who refuse to get a COVID vaccine it now requires.  And the 2,000 other who got a religious or medical exemption to United`s   mandate were put on leave without pay.  We don`t know how many of those employees are pilots, but pilots are the focus of its new training program.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  All clear.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  In the Arizona desert, United Airlines is growing pilots.  Student pilot Adella Diagos (ph) had no flying experience only   last month.  Now she has her sights set on her first solo flight on the way to the pilot seat of a United jet.   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I like the control.  I like the freedom.  I like being in the air.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This is United`s new Aviate Academy.  The only flight school owned by a major U.S. airline.  It is the newest fix for an industry   wide problem.  Airlines that got smaller during the pandemic, are now looking to hire again.  American Airlines wants to add 2,000 pilots this   year.  Delta Airlines plans to hire as many as 200 a month.  United Airlines CEO Scott Kirby says the goal here is to train 500 pilots   annually.  SCOTT KIRBY, CEO OF UNITED AIRLINES:  The pilot shortage is real.  We could hire pilots at United Airlines but the regional airlines and smaller   airlines are having a real pilot shortage and are having real challenges.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Over the holidays, airlines cancelled more than 18,000 flights in the U.S.  Corona virus sick calls compounded crew shortages.    Faye Malarkey Black heads the Regional Airline Association.  FAYE MALARKEY BLACK, REGIONAL AIRLINE ASSOCIATION:  I think a mistake we would make is to treat this like it`s temporary.  This is a problem that`s   real.  It`s present.  It`s already affected air service and it`s going to get worse if we don`t intervene now and give people a real path into this   career.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The latest estimate that airlines worldwide will need at least 34,000 new pilots by 2025, but entry level flying jobs require   1,500 hours of experience.   KIRBY:  The problem is the barriers to entry. This is the model, really about creating that economic opportunity to let people come in who don`t   have $100,000 to spend on their certification but have great potential, great ability.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Tuition here is $71,000.  When they graduate, students could get hired by a United partner company.  First as a flight instructor,   then at a regional airline and ultimately with United.   (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Murder.  Not usually a topic for our fun and games 10 out of 10 segment, but we`re talking about a murder of crows.  Yes, a group of them   is called a murder.  They`ve been occupying the town square in Sunnyvale, California.  Why?  That`s a mystery.  They`ve been doing this for years and   even more since COVID.  They`re noisy.  They`re dirty if you walk under them, and the city has tried everything from laser pointers to scarecrows   to scare off the real crows.  So people have been "swarming" with a string of ideas on how to "herd" the "scourging" plague" out of their "nest".  They`ve mustard a "cloud" of   "clutch" conclusions.  A bruiting "seed" of "solusions" landing only a "parcel" of collective "confusion" over how to end the "occlusion" and   "palusion".  It`s letting the crows get away with "murder" ya`ll.  Today`s shout out takes us to Queen Creek, Arizona where we`re running with the   Colts of Casteel High School and I`m Carl Azuz for CNN. END     

Date: 2022-02-01
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Welcome to the shortest month of the year, and its very first edition of our show.  It`s great to have you watching from   around the world.  My name is Carl Azuz, and we`re starting in the Chinese capital city of Beijing.  In three days, the 2022 Winter Olympic Games   begin.  Like last summer`s events in Tokyo, Japan, there a lot of unique restrictions in place here because of corona virus concerns.  China has   some of the strictest rules on the planet and they include the country`s closed loop system for the Olympics.  This aims to keep people involved in   the games separate from the Chinese public in the hope of preventing the spread of COVID.   Unless their country`s Olympic committee requires them to be vaccinated, athletes don`t have to be inoculated to compete but those who aren`t needed   to arrive in Beijing weeks ago, because the International Olympic Committee has a mandatory 21 day quarantine requirement before they`re able to move   around.  And everyone, regardless of vaccination status has to be tested daily.  Will this keep COVID out of the Olympics?  No.  Organizers say   their goal is zero spread, not zero cases as they do expect people will test positive.  Has anyone involved in these games tested positive yet?    Yes.  Dozens of people, some before they left their home countries, others after they arrived in Beijing.  For some of the athletes with COVID, it means their Olympic dream is over, at least for the next four years regardless of whether they have mild or no   symptoms.  But others are hoping they`ll recover and test negative in advance of their events, in which case they will likely be allowed to   compete.  This is a big effort because roughly 3,000 athletes are expected to participate in these games, in addition to the coaches, support staff,   and members of the media who go there.    (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) SELINA WANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  My team and I are traveling to Beijing for the Winter Olympic games, held under the strictest COVID countermeasures in   the world.  Our journey starts weeks before.  I`m here in Tokyo. It`s 14 days before the game but I`ve already got it down like this Olympic Health   App, start tracking my health in here every day and upload my vaccine certificate.  I`m getting some de javu using this app since we had to use a   similar one for the Tokyo Games, but this time I`m using a burner phone because of cybersecurity concerns in China.  For the next two weeks I`m   limiting physical interactions with others as much as possible, 96 hours before departure.  Here we go in for my first test.  Back home I upload my information to get this green QR code.  Here we go.  We`re taking off.  Just landed in Beijing.  It`s totally (inaudible).  I   haven`t been back here since I moved about a year and a half ago.  First thing I saw walking off the airplane is a sea of hazmat suits.  Feels a bit   more like going into a medical facility than the Olympic buzz you`d expect getting off the airplane.  That was extremely painful.  I just got a nose   and a throat PCR test.  I was tearing up a bit.  I clear customs, immigration and get my Olympic badge without seeing a single face.  I`m   officially in what organizers are calling the closed loop.  Multiple bubbles connected by dedicated transport.  The goal, to keep Olympic   participants separate from the rest of China.   Finally on my way to the hotel on this special bus that`s just for transporting Olympic participants.  Arrived at the hotel, they`ve got this   giant wall all around the hotel so you can`t just walk in and out easily.  The local staff here are also part of this bubble.  They`ll have to   quarantine for 21 days before leaving the bubble and returning to their homes in China.  Beijing isn`t taking any chances.  Entire communities in   China have gone into lockdown over even just one COVID case.  I`ve been waiting six hours.  Just got the call my results came back negative.  I am   so relieved but it`s not over yet.  I`ll be tested daily and will be mostly confined to this room and Olympic venues during my entire stay here.    Selina Wang, CNN, Beijing.  (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  As the world enters the month of February 2022, China and several other Asian countries are entering Lunar New Year, also known as Spring   Festival or Chinese New Year, this is considered to be the most important holiday in the world`s most populated country.  It traditionally triggers   the largest annual human migration on Earth, when hundreds of millions of people travel home to be with their families.  Of course, concerns and   restrictions related to COVID have put a damper on that.  Public events have been limited or cancelled in some Asian cities, but families are still   gathering to celebrate the year 4720 on the Chinese calendar.  It symbolized by the tiger, specifically the water tiger this year.  Lunar New   Year celebrations can last for up to 15 days.    10 Second Trivia.  Which of these animals is most closely related to a wombat?  Koala, Guinea Pig, Opossum or Prairie Dog.  They`re both native to   Australia.  They`re both marsupials and wombats and koalas are closely related.  Wombats, at least the common bear nosed kind, are not considered endangered but koalas might be headed that way.  The International Union for the   Conservation of Nature lists Australia`s koalas as vulnerable, meaning their not officially endangered or extinct but there`s a high risk of them   going extinct in the wild.  Conservationists believe koala`s numbers are decreasing in Australia by as much as 30 percent over the past four years   according to the Australian Koala Foundation.  The nation`s government has set aside tens of millions of dollars for restoring koala habitats,   increasing awareness about the animals and funding more studies about them, but what`s threatening koalas in the first place?  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  They`re cute, cuddly and could one day be extinct, but the koala one of Australia`s iconic animals   may have just been thrown a lifeline by the Australian government.  The Prime Minister Scott Morrison pledging $35 million in the next four years   to protect the species, after the number of koalas plummeted in the last few years.  SCOTT MORRISON, PRIME MINISTER OF AUSTRALIA:  We`re investing in the world leading science in looking after our koala populations.  We are also   investing heavily in education.  So, ensure not only the public can understand how they can care, but also importantly veterinarians right   across the country.  HOLMES:  One of the biggest threats to koalas, bush fires.  In 2019 and 2020, the World Wildlife Fund estimates more than 60,000 koalas were   impacted in one of the country`s worst fire seasons.  That`s a dramatic loss since estimates of their total numbers range from nearly half a   million to fewer than 100,000 in the wild.  Disease is also taking a toll on the species.  Wildlife conservationist Robert Irwin says, the funds are   coming at a critical time for koalas.  ROBERT IRWIN, CONSERVATIONIST:  They are on -- on the thin edge of the wedge, so any kind of support that we can get is greatly, greatly   appreciated, and -- and very, very needed.  Our -- our environment is -- is suffering at the moment and so any steps that we can make toward a -- a   brighter future, to make positive change.  HOLMES:  Some conservationists say money isn`t enough.  Some environmental groups say the government needs to pass stronger laws about deforestation   and climate change to protect koala`s habitats from being bulldozed, logged or burned.  The Australian Koala Foundation says, their conservation status   should be upgraded from vulnerable to critically endangered.  Many agree the money for now is helpful, but without addressing the larger issue   Australia could one day lose what many people say is a national treasure.  Michael Holmes, CNN.  (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  You don`t necessarily need to organize a charity to help out a community. Sometimes you just need to get to work.  That`s what 14 year old   Cohen Stahl has been doing this winter, shoveling his neighbor`s driveways and clearing the snow around mailboxes and fire hydrants.  He had a quad   ATV with a plow on it that he used for big sections and a shovel for smaller ones.  But while he was doing this one day, his ATV caught fire and   was destroyed, so the owner of a local store who`d seen Cohen`s good work online started a GoFundMe to help him buy a new ATV.  It raised the first   $5,000 in less than 24 hours and when we put this show together it had raised more than $10,000. Could that help him out?  "Four-wheel".  He could keep "Cohen", plowing forward without leaving the "Stahl".  His GoFundMe has gotten a "quad" of   donations.  It just goes to "snow" you how much "ATBelieve" in him.  Congrats Cohen.  We`ve got Hinckley Finlayson High School watching today   from Hinckley, Minnesota.  Thank you for your comment and request on our You Tube channel.  I`m Carl Azuz.   END     

Date: 2022-02-02
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR: World record lightning "mega flash". Sounds like a pretty bright place to kick off the new show. I`m Carl Azuz. It`s good to   see you. According to a spokesman from the World Meteorological Organization, a "mega flash" is a really, really big lightning flash. The   official definition is any horizontal lightning bolt that travels more than 62 miles.   But the record breaking "mega flash" that WMO just announced was a little bit bigger. This bolt covered a distance of roughly 477 miles and it struck   across a path from Texas to Louisiana on April 9th, 2020. How do scientists know? How do they measure this stuff? A lot of its done using lightning   mapping array networks, a group of antennas, receivers and computers that record lightning.   These networks are based from the ground though. They have limitations when it comes "mega flashes". So what researchers have been doing is using   satellites to record and measure lightning events and that`s given them a new tool that collects more data about them.   This lead to the recent discovery of another record, one that was set in South America. On October 31st, 2018, a single "mega flash" lasted just   over 17.1 seconds. That was the longest "mega flash" ever recorded. It lit up the skies over Uruguay and northern Paraguay and it probably scared the   daylights out of anyone who noticed a 17 second lightning bolt. Geostation lightning mapping technology on satellites is relatively new.   So scientists think that bigger and brighter "mega flashes" will be observed in the future. They say one big takeaway from this is that it   shows people just how far lightning can reach and that can encourage folks to stay safe and take shelter as severe weather season approaches in the   Spring.   The crash of an American fighter jet in the South China Sea is another complication in an ongoing international dispute over these waters. Located   between Vietnam and the Philippines, the South China Sea is one of the busiest shipping routes on the planet.   China says it controls this body of water and since 2014, it`s been building artificial islands here to support its claims but other nations in   the region and several beyond it, including the United States say China doesn`t control these waters. And the U.S. regularly sails warships there   to support claims that these are international waters.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  IVAN WATSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: The final approach of an F- 35C stealth fighter jet, seconds before it crash lands into the flight deck of a U.S. aircraft carrier. Images circulated on social media, confirmed by   the U.S. Navy show the plane moments later in the ocean, canopy open after its pilot escaped.   The cause of the crash, which injured the pilot and six sailors, still under investigation. The Navy now has the difficult task of recovering the   wreckage of a $100 million jet from the bottom of the ocean, to make sure defense experts say that it`s classified technology doesn`t fall into the   wrong hands.  PETER LAYTON, MILITARY AVIATION EXPERT, GRIFFITH UNIVERSITY: The Chinese have a -- have a long history of being able to borrow something from   overseas and reverse engineer. So that this would certainly be a -- a gold mine as far as that goes.   WATSON: The crash occurred here in the South China Sea, a heavily trafficked body of water that Beijing claims almost all for itself, and   this is where two American aircraft carriers are currently operating accompanied by more than 100 war planes and at least 10 other warships. An   unmistakable demonstration of U.S. Naval power to both allies and rivals in Asia.   ALESSIO PATALANO, PROFESSOR OF WAR AND STRATEGY FOR EAST ASIA, KINGS COLLEGE LONDON: There is a powerful reminder, the facts being the Pacific   is a central strategic importance to the Biden Administration. It`s about signaling to other competitors in the region, (inaudible) China that the   United States credibility should not be taken lightly.   WATSON: The Chinese foreign ministry says it`s not interested in the crashed plane. A spokesman urged the U.S. to contribute more to regional   peace, rather than flexing force at every turn. But Chinese state media did some gloating saying, the crash exposed U.S. exhaustion at containing   China. Experts predict it will take several weeks for the U.S. Navy to recover this expensive wreck from the bottom of the sea. Ivan Watson, CNN,   Hong Kong.   (END VIDEO CLIP)  AZUZ: 10 Second Trivia. Which of these sports made its Olympic debut in the 1920 Summer games? Ice Hockey, Cycling, Curling or Fencing. Ice hockey was   first played in the 1920 Summer games and moved to the first Winter Olympics in 1924.   Women`s ice hockey was added to the Olympics in 1998, and in every tournament since then, the gold medal has gone to either Canada or the   United States. After an American victory in `98, Canada won four Olympics in a row from 2002 to 2014, but the U.S. is the defending champion from the   2018 games in South Korea. One of the players on America`s current Olympic team was born just across the St. Mary`s River from Canada. Hockey is in   her blood.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  ABBY ROQUE, UNITED STATES WOMEN`S HOCKEY PLAYER: It`s made me who I am today playing with the guys and having to be tough, and not let things get   to you. You have to always be proving people wrong because people don`t think you`re tough enough to play with the boys, or good enough to play   with the boys. And so, they really see it.   JIM ROQUE, ABBY ROQUE`S FATHER: She does have a chip. She always had it, even in boy`s hockey. She had a little edge to her. She stood up for   herself and the biggest challenge is just trying to find a place for her to change. A lot of these rinks, no one had women`s locker rooms, she was in   closets.   A. ROQUE: When you`re younger, especially back in the day, I would look at players and I would think I want to be in the NHL but there wasn`t an NHL   for girls like me especially at the time. And I was sitting there, like, oh what else can I do and then all of a sudden you see these amazing U.S.   hockey players on the Olympic stage doing their thing. I`m like, yes, that`s -- that`s my dream.   That`s the highest you can go in hockey and that`s the team I want to be on. My dad was a hockey coach growing up. My mom wanted me to be in figure   skates. I hated them. So I basically forced my way out of the figure skates into hockey skates, because I just wanted to be like my dad and like his   players.   J. ROQUE: She was generally interested in everything from the equipment to how the guys dress, which sticks they use and all the little things they`d   do with pucks on the ice. So it was great to have her around.   A. ROQUE: For him, it was all about having fun. He was never trying to make me the best hockey player in the world. I think he just knew I loved it and   wanted me to be exposed to it and developed the ice rink so I could have fun with my friends. And I think that`s where a lot of my skill and my   talent really comes from, is just all those years having fun in the back yard.   I`ve definitely had an unconventional journey to get to this team. Growing up as an indigenous person, it wasn`t really that rare to see other hockey   players playing who had indigenous roots and then I got to college and I think that`s where it really clicked for me that you`re different than the   rest of the people.   J. ROQUE: It`s challenge, I know, for a lot of indigenous kids to get off the reserve, or off the band and move away and fit in, but Abby, obviously,   was real lucky that she grew up with a lot of kids like that in -- in her town.   A. ROQUE: I want to help to diversify hockey as a sport, making the sport more diverse is just trying to make it more accessible first of all but   also just, you need more visibility that you can make it. I think looking at this roster as a young kid, you didn`t see anybody who wasn`t a white   hockey player.   For me that goes a long way, seeing somebody like you doing it, being at the top of the game and knowing you can make it that far and that hockey is   a sport that includes you. If one little girl says I want to play hockey because she`s playing hockey. I think that would mean the world to me. Just   changing one person`s trajectory and letting them know that there`s a place for them in hockey and letting hockey do its thing because hockey really is   one of the greatest things that`s ever happened to me.   J. ROQUE: The other night I was watching something and I, kind of, had tears in my eyes just thinking about it a little bit and having an Olympian   daughter, you know. Now she`s going to go to the Olympics and try to win a gold medal and she wrote a letter to herself in grade 6 that she was going   to play at Wisconsin. She was going to play on the Olympic team and, you know, the only thing she hasn`t done yet is get the Mustang she said in the   letter she`s getting. So I mean, she`s -- she`s a focused kid.   A. ROQUE: It`s really special to be able to represent your country on clearly the biggest stage there is.   J. ROQUE: This isn`t a one time thing for Abby. I think she wants to play now and she wants to play in four years. I think, like, I think Abby wants   to play for a long time. She loves it.   A. ROQUE: I wouldn`t want to play hockey unless it was the most fun thing in the world and it really is for me.   (END VIDEO CLIP)  AZUZ: As of yesterday afternoon, the cheapest seats you could buy for Super Bowl LVI were selling for $7,000 each. The average price was around $10,000   or more and the cost could go even higher in the coming days. That makes this the most expensive Super Bowl ever for tickets.   The Cincinnati Bengals have never won a championship. The city of Los Angeles, California hasn`t hosted a Super Bowl in 30 years, and it`s a huge   metropolitan area where prices are expensive anyway. So those are all factors in ticket prices. So the prices are "super". It`s almost   "unBowlievable" for some fans in the stands.   It`s almost unachievable and their bankers may "block" them saying it`s "out of bounds" for them to draw down accounts just to see some   "touchdowns". But if you "received" a raise and can "foot" the bill for "football". "Hike" your budget and you make the "call".   I`m Carl Azuz, want to give a shout out to all the home schoolers watching today. We know you represent a growing part of our audience and we`re   thankful for you and everyone viewing CNN.    END  

Date: 2022-02-03
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  We`re traveling the world to report today`s news and we`re happy to have you along for the ride.  I`m Carl Azuz.  First   story take us to Europe where the United States is deploying 3,000 more servicemen and women.  They`re headed to Germany, Poland and Romania and   the American military says additional troops could be on the way.   This is designed to send a signal that the U.S. is prepared to defend its allies in Europe.  More than two dozen countries on that continent are   members of NATO, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  It was formed in 1949 as a guard against the Soviet Union.  The United States is also a   member and NATO`s biggest contributor and NATO`s concerned that Russia may soon try to invade Ukraine.   Russia`s positioned more than 100,000 troops near its western border with Ukraine.  NATO operates on the principle of collective defense. An attack   on one country is an attack on all of them, but Ukraine is not a member of NATO.  Some Ukrainians want their country to be, others want closer ties to   Russia.   One thing Russia wants is a promise that Ukraine won`t become part of NATO.  Russia`s trying to keep European influence at a distance, but the U.S. and   European allies have not promised that.  Will American troops get involved if Russia invades?  U.S. President Joe Biden has said no, and the Pentagon   says the thousands of American forces headed to the region now would not be fighting in Ukraine.   But they`ll be there to assure America`s other allies in the region that the U.S. supports them if Russia were to consider crossing other borders   for instance.  Russia has said it has no plans to invade Ukraine and some Ukrainians near their country`s eastern border don`t seem too worried.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  This is Ukraine`s first line of defense if Russia decides to invade, and it is basic.  Half a   dozen soldiers in snow covered trenches, no sign of heavy weapons.  Russian backed separatists are just half a mile away.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (UNTRANSLATED) WARD:  He`s saying that every night there`s fighting once it gets dark.  These front lines have been frozen for years.  A Russian offensive would   change that in an instant, but the alarm in Washington is not shared here.  What`s amazing to see is that despite the build-up of tanks and heavy   weaponry on the Russian side of the border, which is less than 20 miles from here.   Here on the Ukrainian side, there`s no sense at all that anyone is preparing for an invasion.  The sergeant here asked we not give his name.    He says he doesn`t expect conflict but he is prepared. UNIDENTIFIED MALE TRANSLATED:  Our commanders told us that we must be alert, he tells us.  We are ready to meet guests from Russia.   WARD:  What kind of weapons do you have at this position?  Do you have any heavy weaponry?  I don`t see any but I just want to make sure.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE TRANSLATED:  You don`t need to see and the enemy doesn`t need to see, he says.  But we have everything. WARD:  What they don`t have here are many layers of defense, driving from the front we see just a handful of checkpoints.  If the Ukrainian army   can`t hold this area, Russian forces could reach Mariupol, a port city of half a million in hours.  Despite the threat, life here goes on much as   normal.  At the local markets, stalls are open and the shelves are full.  I`d love to know if you think that there will be a war.   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE TRANSLATED:  We don`t want war.  We have children and grandchildren Natalya says, and there won`t be war.  We believe that. WARD:  Some like Erjon (ph) say that America is exaggerating the threat. UNIDENTIFIED MALE TRANSLATED:  No there will not be a war, he says.  It`s only Biden who thinks this.   WARD:  It`s interesting talking to people here.  Nobody seems to be remotely concerned about the prospect of an imminent invasion.  These   people are no strangers to war.  All around Mariupol, the hollowed-out remnants of villages destroyed and abandoned by fighting between Ukrainian   forces and pro-Russian separatists.   But whether moved by denial or disbelief, these soldiers and the people they`re protecting don`t expect history to repeat itself.  For now, they   wait and they watch and they hope.  The U.S. has been sending a steady stream of weapons to Ukraine including those much-coveted Javelin missiles,   anti-tank missiles but under the rules of the current ceasefire, even though it`s being broken on a regular basis.   Neither side is allowed to bring heavy weaponry down to the frontlines. So those Javelins cannot go to the frontlines and that could potentially be a   big problem for Ukrainian forces in those areas if Russia launches some type of lightening offensive.  Clarissa Ward, CNN, Eastern Ukraine. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  More Americans quit their jobs in 2021 than in any other year ever recorded.  This is according to new data from the U.S. Labor Department,   47.4 million people left their jobs voluntarily meaning they weren`t fired or laid off.  They just chose to leave.  This doesn`t mean they all stopped   working.   Millions took new jobs that paid more or offered better benefits, but employers still had trouble filling available positions. This graphic shows   the number of job openings in America over the past 10 years and how available jobs skyrocketed in 2021.  Among those who quit without getting   new jobs, some retired.  Many had trouble finding childcare and quit to be with their kids.   Experts say some were concerned about catching COVID, while others refused the vaccine that some employers required. All these pressured businesses to   up their efforts to attract employees.   10 Second Trivia.  Where would you find Point Nemo?  Great Barrier Reef, Remote South Pacific, Key West, Florida, or Bali, Indonesia.  Point Nemo is   an area in the South Pacific that`s the farthest location from land.   That`s why more than 260 pieces of discarded space equipment have been sent to and sunk near Point Nemo and the International Space Station will   probably be headed there in 2030.  That`s when NASA plans to stop operating the orbiting laboratory.  It costs billions of dollars each year to   maintain and the U.S. Space Agency has been pushing for more private investment in the ISS.  NASA expects commercial stations will eventually   replace it, and Russia plans to leave the international project in 2025.   So, the ISS is scheduled to crash into the ocean in early 2031.  The U.S. covered 2/3 the total cost of the ISS and critics have said it hasn`t been   worth the investment in terms of scientific discoveries. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It`s the most expensive object ever built costing over $100 billion, and it`s a true marvel of engineering.  So, what do we   have to show for it?  First of all, we have the station itself.  Astronauts helped put the floating laboratory together 250 miles above Earth, and it   was a monumental task seeing that it weighs in at nearly 1 million pounds and has the same livable space as a six-bedroom house, and Bob Cabana   literally turned the lights on. ROBERT CABANA, DIRECTOR, KENNEDY SPACE CENTER:  We actually opened the doors to the space station, powered up the computers and turned on the   lights for the -- for the first time and that was -- that was a pretty amazing mission.  I will never forget that. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It took over 40 rocket launches to build this thing.  The first piece was sent up in 1998 but it wasn`t deemed complete until   2011.  It`s been occupied since 2000.   CABANA:  The International Space Station, it`s an international cooperative effort and I think this is the way that when we leave planet Earth, when we   go exploring.  It set the model on how we`re going to explore beyond planet Earth.  I would get the United States, Russia, Canada, Japan, the European   Space Agency and all its partners and we are working together up there.   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Congress declared the U.S. portion of ISS a national laboratory.  Crew members spend about 35 hours per week conducting   research, which has led to a critical understanding of how the human body reacts to a microgravity environment, and has also helped in the   development of vaccines against pathogens like salmonella and developing drugs to combat osteoporosis.  But the overarching goal of the station is   much greater.   CABANA:  Our goal right now at NASA is to put boots on Mars. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  You know those cardboard cut-outs of sports fans at pro games in 2020.  Well, this happened recently at a town green in Connecticut.    Penguins are not indigenous to Connecticut.  This was an idea of a local artist who wanted to bring smiles to residents, and judging by their   reactions mission accomplished.   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I think it`s absolutely fabulous that we live in a town where someone cares enough to take the time and energy to spread joy. AZUZ:  People were getting "penguin" to it.  They "marched" from all over to see it.  Of course, this was in Guilford, not Gotham so Batman wasn`t   around, but while I`m being "flippant".  Fans thought a great idea had been "hatched" and even if it doesn`t take "flight" to other places, people   still found it "antartistic".  We`ve got Conrad Weiser Area School District watching today.  It`s great to see you in Robesonia, Pennsylvania.  I`m   Carl Azuz.       END     

Date: 2022-02-04
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hi, I`m Carl Azuz. Welcome to our last show of the week. We know many of you will be spending the next couple days digging   out from a winter storm and we`ll have a report on that in just a couple minutes. First though, on Wednesday night, U.S. special forces targeted a   terrorist leader in northwestern Syria. His name was Abu Ibrahim al-Hashimi al-Qurayshi. He`d been in charge of the ISIS terrorist group since its   former leader was killed more than a year ago. Al-Qurayshi died in the raid.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN: Last night operating on my orders, the United States military forces successfully removed a major terrorist threat to the world   the global leader of ISIS, known as Hajji Abdullah. He took over as leader of ISIS in 2019. Since then ISIS has directed terrorist operations   targeting Americans, our allies and our partners and countless civilians in the Middle East, Africa and in South Asia.  (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ: The president went on to say that the reason U.S. troops were directly involved in the raid was to minimize the risk to civilians. Their   lives would have been in greater danger if this had been an air strike, but at least 13 people including some civilians were killed during and after   the raid. U.S. officials say as American special forces approached, Al- Qurayshi set off a suicide bomb that killed himself and several members of his family. All of the U.S. troops involved returned safely, though there   was a mechanical problem with one of the helicopters used in the raid and it had to be destroyed.  ISIS is an acronym for Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. That`s what the terrorist group wanted to create. A theocracy in the Middle East based on   its extremist interpretation of Islam. ISIS quickly took over large parts of the territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. It was a violent group.   Infamous for murdering scores of people who didn`t share its beliefs, but four years after it swept to control in the Middle East ISIS had faced   relentless battles involving local militias, U.S. forces, groups supported by America and Iraqi government troops. They`d all stepped up their fight   against ISIS and in 2018, the terrorist group admitted it was losing. It`s former leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi was killed in a U.S. raid in   northwestern Syria in 2019. Wednesday`s operation that killed Al-Qurayshi was the biggest American raid in Syria since then.  More than 100 million people, that`s almost a third of the U.S. population were under winter weather alerts yesterday. A storm system affecting 25   states was blasting its way across the country bringing sleet, snow and ice from the southwest to the northeast, from New Mexico to New Hampshire.   Roughly a quarter million homes and businesses lost electricity Thursday. Ice was threatening trees and power lines. Thousands of flights were   cancelled across the country, more than 3,800 of them that was the most since last February. Twenty inches of snow piled up in part of Colorado   while a foot of it coated areas in Illinois and Indiana, and the northeast is bracing for snowfall expected to last through Friday. Here`s CNN 10   contributor Tyler Mauldin with more on winter storms.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) TYLER MAULDIN, CNN 10 CORRESPONDENT: Snow storms and cold fronts go hand in hand during the winter season. Every week during this time of the year, a   weather system is sure to form and bring wintry mischief to someone. Not every snowstorm is the same though. Some can be light. Some can be heavy.   Some can be dangerous and others fun. When you think of intense snowstorms, you think of terms like lake effect snow and blizzards, however there`s   another type that is equally as dangerous, snow squalls. A snow squall is similar to a blizzard in that you need wind of at least 35 miles per hour,   and visibility of less than a quarter of a mile but squalls only last 30 minutes. Unlike a blizzard that has to last for at least three hours.  Squalls are also followed by a flash freeze because they`re associated with Arctic fronts. So an intense line of blinding snow pushes through and is   immediately followed by a huge drop in temperatures, causing everything to freeze almost instantaneously. Squalls also have a long history of causing   major car accidents due to the poor visibility and freeze, making being out on the road driving the worst place to be during a snow squall. Back in   January 2015, whiteout conditions were blamed for shutting down Interstate 94 after nearly 200 vehicles were involved in a chain reaction pile-up.   Thankfully the National Weather Service recently started issuing snow squall warnings to help keep you safe.  (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ: 10 Second Trivia. In 1888, America`s first vending machine dispensed what product? Chocolate, Cigarettes, Gum or Soap. The Thomas Adams Gum   Company used a vending machine to sell it`s product on train platforms.  It was not the first vending machine ever. Historians say a Greek inventor named Hero the Alexandria created a device that would dispense holy water   after people deposited a coin. Of course, vending machines have come a long way since then. They`re especially popular in Japan where they dispense   everything from eggs and flowers to t-shirts and hotdogs and inventing ideas are surfacing on how to use existing vending machines in ways they   haven`t been used before.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: When COVID first hit Japan, this vending machine helped Sugako Matsuno shop Mousseline stay afloat, one chiffon cake at a time.   Customers could buy her product without human interaction whenever they wanted. After installing the machine, sales eventually increased 20   percent.  SUGAKO MATSUNO, FOUNDER OF MOUSSELINE TRANSLATED: If I had spent my life just waiting for customers, I would have lost my mind and not been able to   continue this business. The vending machine relieved that stress.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Vending machines are a staple in Japan. There are over 5.5 million of them in the country. One for every 23 people. The highest   ratio in the world and while it helped Matsuno`s shop, experts say the overall industry took a hit during the pandemic.  DOMINIK STEINER, CEO AND FOUNDER OF VPC ASIA: People started working from home and the commuter traffic collapsed and hence there`s nobody walking by   the vending machines.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Tech firm VPC Asia has been working in the vending machine industry for five years. It developed this device that helps   upgrade older machines by connecting them to the internet, allowing access to the machines without having to touch or be near it. The customers can   buy his products and check what`s for sale using their Smartphones, while operators can find out when and what products are out of stock allowing   them to route trucks more efficiently. Beyond these uses, Steiner says there`s even more potential for innovation opting to look at the machines   as real estate.  STEINER: There are so many and they`re in prime locations and so what else can they do other than just selling the drinks or other food.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Including additional sensors, cameras and other types of tech, Steiner says the machines could serve various purposes from   marketing, data storage, weather forecasting, noise analysis for crime prevention to earthquake monitoring.  STEINER: The vibration we can monitor earthquakes. We cannot predict the earthquake but we can warn. We have million of spots in Japan that we can   see where the earthquake comes from and maybe gain 10-20 seconds. The platform is ready for all of these, meaning we`ve built it. We`ve tested   it. We`ve designed it. It`s all there.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: While the tech may be ready, there`s still a ways to go before we can see it on the market. Steiner says it still need buy in from   all the different stakeholders.  STEINER: The issues is how to integrate into the existing systems into the society. Are they ready to use that data for earthquake or crime   prevention? That is something that will take, not months but years.  (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ: From the "Don`t try this at home" category comes a new creation by an ultimate Star Wars fan, a real life light saber. A Russian You Tuber   created a hydrogen and oxygen burner. It shoots out a plasma blade that`s hotter than 5,000 degrees Fahrenheit. It can cut through steel. It earned   him a Guinness World Record for handheld, retractable light saber. The downside, well it`s dangerous and it only holds enough gas to burn for 30   seconds.  Other than that, what`s not to "Luke". A lot of people "Obiwant" one, but it "Obiharmful" and "Lando" you in a lot of "bigs" troubles. So maybe we   should get "Chewbacca" to playing with the plastic kind, "Mandalorigan". Especially if you`re on the "Jabba". You can`t be cashing on "Tarsomething"   that could lead to "General Grievence". My name is Carl Azuz. Today s shout out goes out to Athens Drive Magnet High School. It is located in Raleigh,   North Carolina. Friday`s are awesome.   END   

Date: 2022-02-07
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Welcome back to CNN 10. Hope your Monday`s going well so far. My name is Carl Azuz and for the second time within a year the   show has gone on. The Winter Olympics officially began as scheduled last Friday, less than six months after the summer games ended. Of course, those   had been delayed a year by COVID-19.  The 2022 Winter events kicked off on time, but there have been some bumps in the road, coronavirus being one of them. Several hundred people   participating in the games have tested positive for the disease and dozens of those people are athletes. Because China, the host country has very   strict rules concerning COVID, some of these athletes have missed out on their events, while others are hunkered down in isolation hoping to test   free of the virus before their competitions kick-off.  Regardless of their COVID status, none of the participants in these games are allowed to go sites seeing or shopping in public. China`s closed loop   system keeps them separate from the rest of Beijing as they train, compete or hand-out in the Olympic Village. There`ve been some concerns about free   speech in these Olympics.  China is a communist nation who`s government controls its media, and that government has warned athletes that any speech that goes against the   Olympic spirit or against Chinese laws would be quote "subject to certain punishment". We don`t know what that might be. For years, China`s been   accused of mistreating activists, spiritual and religious groups those it`s government has repeatedly denied doing that. U.S. House Speaker Nancy   Pelosi recently warned athletes not to speak out about human rights issues in China.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) REP. NANCY PELOSI (D-CA): You`re there to compete. Do not risk incurring the anger of the Chinese government because they are ruthless.  (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ: But the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations says the Biden Administration would stand with athletes in China and be there to protect   them. The American government has diplomatically boycotting these games, meaning it hasn`t sent political officials there. Britain and Canada have   done the same thing. China has asked the U.S. to stop interfering with the Olympics.  10 Second Trivia. Until 2015, who had been Britain`s longest reigning monarch? King Henry VIII, King George V, Queen Elizabeth I, or Queen   Victoria. Queen Victoria`s record reign of more than 63 years was broken in 2015.  That`s the year when Britain`s Queen Elizabeth II, the royal who broke Victoria`s record, had held the title for 63 years, 217 days and of course,   she`s reigned far beyond that. It was on February 6th, 1952, exactly 70 years ago Sunday, that Queen Elizabeth ascended to the throne and that was   after the death of her father King George VI.  The new queen was 25 years old at that time, and now she serves as the longest reigning monarch of any nation on Earth. Officially Britain`s   government is a parliamentary constitutional monarchy, the role of the royal leader is mostly ceremonial with the lawmaking and governing power   vested in parliament. But the position of monarch, especially under Queen Elizabeth is immensely popular in Britain and abroad.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) MAX FOSTER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: During her reign, Queen Elizabeth has celebrated three landmark Jubilees, Silver in 1977, Golden in 2002 and her   Diamond Jubilee in 2012. This year, having already surpassed the record breaking reign of Queen Victoria, Elizabeth becomes the first British   monarch to mark a Platinum Jubilee after an unprecedented seven decades of service. During her historic reign, she`s appointed 14 prime ministers, and   met 12 U.S. presidents. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) QUEEN ELIZABETH II: I have been privileged to witness some of that history.  (END VIDEO CLIP) FOSTER: She`s been a beacon of continuity through an unprecedented period of change, not least the media revolution. Her greatest achievement perhaps   has been her ability to remain relevant and popular. Approaching her 96th birthday, for almost everyone living, she is the only British monarch   they`ve ever known.  With no plans to retire, a series of celebrations will take place throughout the year culminating in the four day public holiday weekend in   June. When the public can join the Jubilee themed festivities. Expect blockbuster pomp and pageantry, street parties and parades, a concert with   some of the world`s biggest stars slated to attend.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: There`s going to be some surprises up their sleeve. Really, the palace are aware just as much as every as this has been a long   time coming. No one`s really been out to party for quite a long time, so hopefully there`s going to be a big party. COVID will be behind us and   people can celebrate outdoors and indoors in the way they`d like.  FOSTER: After one of the most tumultuous years in modern royal history, the Queen will be hoping to put the focus back on the future of the monarchy.   The family have been engulfed by a series of rifts and scandals, but the institution still appears to project strength through its unwavering and   revered figure head.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So significantly we do have to remember that when she came to the throne in 1952, it was really not a very enlightened time in   terms of working women. A lot people thought that a woman wasn`t up to the job, despite the fact that Queen Victoria and all the queens before had   been great queens on the throne and she proved them all wrong, and really has proved over and over again that a woman can do the job of a   constitutional monarch. Just as well as, if not better than a man.  FOSTER: For the first time this year, Elizabeth will be without Prince Philip at major royal celebration. The man who was by her side personally   and professionally throughout her reign. Prince Charles will step in to play a major role, as will Camilla, William and Kate. They are the future   and will be front and center alongside the queen. Perhaps we`ll also be looking ahead to the next Jubilee when the Queen surpasses France`s Louis   XIV to become the longest serving reigning monarch in world history. Max Foster, CNN.  (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ: Next, what`s been compared to a sort of lighthouse in deep space. Scientists don`t know what it is exactly. There are a lot of mysteries in   the universe, but they know what it does. Some sort of object out there is beaming out radiation three times per hour. It was first detected four   years ago by a powerful telescope in the remote outback of western Australia.  Researchers noticed a space object was appearing and then disappearing over the hours they looked at it, and it was the first time they`d identified   something cosmic that did this. A study was recently published about this in the journal "Nature". One of many questions scientists have is whether   this is a rare event or if there are other objects in the universe that sporadically send out radiation but just haven`t been noticed before.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: When a massive star explodes, it leaves behind a dense spinning core made entirely of neutrons. Many neutron stars have strong   magnetic fields and as they spin, they produce radio emission. They call this a pulsar. In the future, we`re hoping to find more and follow them up   with powerful telescopes which could be the key to unlocking this new cosmic mystery.  (END VIDEO CLIP0 AZUZ: For 10 out of 10, when capturing parrots with a camera you wouldn`t expect the parrot to capture the camera, but that`s exactly what happened   to a family in New Zealand. The bird took some amazing footage, unintentionally of course before if finally landed and released it`s prize.   The owners of the GoPro said they followed the sounds of squawking until at last -- (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I found it.  (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ: It`s like looking through a bird`s eye view finder. Of course, pirates had parrots. So you can`t trust a parrot not to "parrot a pirates   piracy" and if you leave it sitting to aside. A "sitting sitasine" might see it as a sign to stop sitting and take flight with the camera rolling.   Even if it`s a "macawful" idea that goes "cocatoofar" and leaves things completely "squawk ward". I`m Carl Azuz. It`s great to see Charleston   Collegiate School watching today from Johns Island, South Carolina. "Raaaak", that`s a rap for CNN. END   

Date: 2022-02-08
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hi, I`m Carl Azuz. Thalassophile is a word you don`t hear very often. If you know what it means and especially if you   happen to be one, you are going to love this special edition of our show. Simply put, a thalassophile is someone who loves the sea, and the deep blue   is where we`re headed today.  Specifically, the deepest known part of the ocean. Start in the Pacific, if you find the northern Mariana Islands on the eastern part of the Philippine   Sea, you`re only about 330 miles northeast of the Mariana Trench. It`s located seven miles beneath the ocean`s surface. It`s what National   Geographic describes as a scar in the Earth`s crust.  This trench extends for more than 1,500 miles and it`s 43 miles wide on average. So this a pretty big gouge on the ocean floor, and if you go to   the southern end of it you`ll find it`s deepest point. This remote place is called the Challenger Deep. It takes patience to get there, even after you   sail right over it.  Submersibles that can withstand the pressure take hours to dive this deep, and even though thousands of people have climbed to the top of Mount   Everest, which is five and a half miles higher than sea level. Only a couple dozen have reached the seven mile depth of the Challenger Deep, so   it`s largely unexplored.  But we know someone who has been there, his name is Rob McCallum. He`s from New Zealand. Last April, he and Australian Tim Mcdonald became the first   people from their countries to dive this record depth. They were kind enough to provide us with the video you are about to see, and I had the   opportunity to interview Mr. McCallum about the experience not long after he hit rock bottom and then resurfaced in the Spring of 2021. So hold your   breath, and let`s dive in. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ROB MCCALLUM, DEEP SEA EXPLORER, FOUNDING PARTNER OF EYOS EXPEDITION: It`s the last unexplored frontier on Earth. We know very little about this --   this region, what we call the Hadal Zone, which is that area of the ocean below 6,000 meters or 20,000 feet.  AZUZ: You can`t just get there in a normal submarine. What sort of vehicle does it take to withstand the pressures there?  MCCALLUM: I guess, a very interesting question, because pressure is entirely relative. When a spacecraft goes up into space, they`re only   experiencing a pressure change of one atmosphere between the inside of the spacecraft and the outside. We are dealing with a pressure differential of   around 1,000 atmospheres.  So, we dive in a titanium sphere, which is able to withstand 100,000 tons of pressure. Just on the hatch, through which we get into the submarine,   just the hatch alone, has 2,200 tons or around five fully laden Boeing 747`s pushing down on it.  AZUZ: That`s -- that`s incredible. I mean, somebody can`t go out and -- and buy that. How does one acquire a vehicle like that?  MCCALLUM: This vehicle was made for this specific purpose. It was designed and built by Triton Submarines in Florida, specifically to be able to   voyage down through 7 and 1/2 miles of water comb to get to the bottom. And that`s why it`s got, kind of, an interesting shape. It looks like a pillow   that`s on it`s side and that`s so that it can drop down through the water comb very, very quickly.  AZUZ: You said very quickly. How long does it take to get to that depth?  MCCALLUM: It takes around 4 and a half hours to get to the deepest point of the world`s ocean. We go down through the water at about six feet per   second.  AZUZ: And coming back?  MCCALLUM: We release ballast weight on the bottom to -- to just spring us off the bottom and head toward the surface, and so it`s about a 3 and 1/2   hour ride home.  AZUZ: What are you seeing when you get to the ocean floor in the deepest part of it?  MCCALLUM: This is the most fantastic part of what we`re doing. It`s true exploration. You know, we never know what we`re going to see. Every dive   has yielded something fascinating, often something new to science. We are seeing creatures for the first time. We are discovering entire landscapes   which were previously unknown.  AZUZ: That`s still a full day just in travel time. So how much time does that give you on the ocean`s floor?  MCCALLUM: We try to stay down for 3 to 5 hours on the bottom. You know, it`s a big investment of time and energy. It takes the entire team to get   this vehicle prepared and get it down, and so we -- we try every minute possible on the bottom. Our submersible has three viewports.  One for each of the occupants (inaudible), so one central one will allow us to see down to the sea floor and we`re also surrounded by very high-  definition cameras that are all linked to a screen in front of us. And we can look in any direction outside, and that`s important because we don`t   really know where we`re going. We`re almost always the very first humans that have ever been there. And so although we have a three dimensional map   that we`ve made the day before, we need a very good view outside to see what`s coming.  You know, for humans, we don`t really fear what we can`t sense. So in an airliner, and you`re looking out. You don`t naturally think of the wind   going past at 500 miles per hour and it`s minus 50 out there and it`s not enough air to breathe. Just, I can see a town or I can see a track and it`s   the same in the sub.  There`s no sensation of movement. There`s no sensation of sound. You can`t hear or feel anything from outside. It`s just a very peaceful, relaxing   cruise into the unknown. I think that we know so little about the ocean that we barely understand what questions to ask, let alone have the ability   to -- to understand the answers.  My role and the role of -- of the team that I work with is to simply open the door. This is the first vehicle of all of human history that has the   ability to reach the deep ocean, in any ocean, at any depth, at any time. It`s a -- it`s akin to the Wright Brothers, with the first flying machine.   This was just the first baby steps. AZUZ: I know the technology might be a way, a way from creating a, sort of, ocean exploration station that withstand depths like that, but we have   reported on there -- there is more funding and investment in underwater exploration stations. I mean, how important would you feel those would be   as contrast and well let`s say the International Space Station.  MCCALLUM: Both are important. Don`t get me wrong. I`m not taking a shot at space travel, but you know, space is a vast void, a vacuum that so far has   proved to be lifeless. The ocean is nothing like that. The ocean is full of life. You know, right from the surface all the way down to the very, very   bottom. I think before we leave home and start exploring the heavens, we should at least explore our own backyard more thoroughly.  I think that many of the answers to our collective future are going to be found in the ocean, and some of those in the deep ocean. The answers to how   we`re going handle all the carbon in the atmosphere. The answers to the dynamics of our ocean and how we can arrest the decline of the ocean, but   also the things that we might discover in terms of valuable compounds for medicines and that sort of thing.  AZUZ: So why do you think there`s so much interest in space exploration, when we could be exploring what we have right here?  MCCALLUM: I think it`s a simple as when we gaze up at the heavens, we -- we have a sense of wonder. What`s out there? What can we find? We always look   skyward because we`re terrestrial mammals. We -- we -- we look up to the heavens. When we look into the water, you really don`t see that much.  We see an opaque plain -- platform that we pull fish out of, maybe go for a swim in, but we don`t actually go too far down. You know, my dive was about   36,000 feet. Most humans never get below about 300 feet. So there`s a long way to go yet.  (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ: 10 Second Trivia. What is the most abundant fish in the world? Herring, Bristlemouth, Minnow or Sunfish. Scientists believe the most   numerous fish in the world are Bristlemouths or light fishes.  That`s our catch for today. It is surely fun to take a deep dive in such a "mar interesting" topic. There`re "oceans" of possibilities. Sights to see.   Facts in the "swim" beneath the surface. "Schools" of thought, I mean, what better way to get a "gyro education" than to "immerse" yourself in a   "current" event.  Today`s shout out goes out the Grenada High School located in Grenada, Mississippi. There is one place we look for the schools we mention. It`s   our You Tube Channel at youuuuutube.com/CNN10. So please subscribe and leave your comment on our most recent show right there. That`s all for our   show today. I`m Carl Azuz.     END 

Date: 2022-02-09
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi, I`m Carl Azuz with your down the middle explanation of world news.  To what extent should the U.S. government`s   recommendations be followed when it comes to mask mandates in schools.  Right now, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a   government agency, recommends universal masking, meaning everyone in school is urged to wear one.  The Biden Administration says the same thing.   It supports masking in schools, but the White House also says it`s always been up to local school districts to decide whether they`ll follow the   government`s guidance and the results have been mixed across America.  Some states require masks to be worn in schools.  Some have banned mask wearing   in schools, and some have rules on this that just started being enforced. It`s the same thing in individual districts.  Some require masks, some don`t.  Some let students and teacher decide for themselves.  But with   their COVID cases decreasing, governors in several states that currently have school mask mandates are moving to get rid of them, even though it   goes against Federal guidelines.   Critics of Federal health officials say they haven`t been clear enough about those guidelines, that they haven`t updated them often enough or that   these recommendations don`t make sense for all schools.  A CNN medical analyst says if the CDC`s recommendations aren`t being followed, it hurts   the credibility of the agency and government health officials. For its part, the CDC says its guidance is quote, "meant to supplement, not replace any other safety laws and regulations and that it continuously   reviews pandemic and scientific information when deciding on its recommendations".  One medical expert interviewed by CNN says communities   should look at local COVID case counts and hospitalization rates when deciding what they`ll do about masks in schools.   10 Second Trivia. Besides the ISS, what is the heaviest object people have ever sent to space?  Skylab, Mir, Hubble or the Apollo Command Service   Module.  The Soviet and later Russian space station Mir had a mass of almost 286,000 pounds.   Since 1971, hundreds of pieces of old space equipment including Mir and Skylab have been intentionally crashed at Point Nemo.  It`s an area so   remote and so far from inhabited land, that often times the closet people to it are those flying overhead on the International Space Station, 227   miles over the ocean`s surface.  Space experts say Point Nemo`s the safest place on Earth to crash something.  Planes and ships passing through the   area are warned in advance and when it comes to space junk, a dump is something that`s badly needed. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  After decades of launches since the dawn of the space age, Earth`s orbit has become a junkyard of dead satellites and abandoned   rocket bodies.  And anytime two objects traveling at about five miles a second collide, the impact could look like a scene straight out of the   movie "Gravity".  In real life, no people in space have ever been hit but the International Space Station has.  In 2016, a small piece of debris   cracked a window on the orbiting outpost and in December its crew prepared for an emergency evacuation after a Russian anti-satellite missile test   created a massive debris cloud.   (BEGIN AUDIO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We will need to activate Dragon Space Haven. (END AUDIO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Today, U.S. Space Command is tracking more than 40,000 objects in space and only about 5,000 of them are active satellites.    The vast majority of space junk still in orbit is from the two major players in the first space race, Russia and the United States.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  If these spacecrafts were left there by the U.S. government and they generally were, then that becomes their responsibility   to clean it up, in the same way that the military would not leave a broken- down tank on the battlefield.  Nor would it go ahead and -- and leave a ship --a derelict ship at sea. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  So far, the effort to clean up space has been led by Japan and the European Space Agency, and private companies.  Some companies   like ClearSpace are trying to grab debris with robotic tentacles.  Others are trying to catch it with a massive fishing net and in August, a company   called Astroscale successfully tested capturing a small satellite with a magnetic arm. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We use a robotic arm that extends and attaches to that metallic plate.  That allows us then to basically perform, tow truck or a   tug service bringing that satellite down to a safe distance, and then we can release it to naturally and safely burn up in -- in the atmosphere.   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Astroscale caught the attention of the Prince of Wales who visited it`s UK based mission control last week.  The company now   has debris removal contracts with the UK, the European Union and Japan.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The U.S. unfortunately, we haven`t seen and we haven`t gotten as much traction from the U.S. government. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  But the Biden Administration is starting to change that.  In January, the White House held meetings with experts about how to   clean-up space and the Space Force is launching a program called "Orbital Prime" that will give companies the seed funding to do it.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Our vision in this partnership is to aggressively explore those capabilities with you today, in the hope that we and others   can purchase them as a service in the future. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  The fact that Americans plan to spend almost $24 billion this Valentine`s Day only tells part of the story.  That number works out to $72   per person for everyone in the country, but not everyone plans to celebrate.  Counting only the people who do, the average amount of spending   jumps up to more than $175 per person and this is not a record according to the National Retail Federation.  That was set in 2020 with the COVID   pandemic looming in America.   In that year, Valentine celebrants spent almost $200 each on average.  But if you`re feeling pressured to spend a lot, remember that money isn`t   everything.  According to personal finance website WalletHub, 54 percent of Americans say they`d break up with their significant others if they spent   too much. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Six blocks with dozens of wholesale flower vendors.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (Inaudible) make sure everything`s good. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Business in the Los Angeles flower district really blooms in February, so much that the California Flower Mall, one of the   district`s large markets will stay open round the clock from Super Bowl Sunday through the end of the Valentine`s Day. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It`s a good feeling.  You know, it`s like you`re buying flowers for somebody you care about.  So all of that really helps, you   know, despite the -- the -- the economics.   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Owner Mark Chanauv (ph) says his 35 vendors face the same thorny economic issues as any other retailer as growers and supplier`s   countdown to a second pandemic era Valentine`s Day. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We are facing rising costs, logistics, transportation which is part of logistics, shortages. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Hussein Boostos (ph) brings flowers to the Los Angeles market from local growers, but also items like roses from South   America.  He says disruptions to those air shipments are unlike anything seen in his 30 years in the flower industry. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  One airline cancels, then whoever`s behind it got the pressure to pick up what`s behind.   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  And the high demand holiday falling on a Monday this year, puts on the pressure especially for florists tasked with final   delivery. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Those are 2021 problems that are continuing into 2022, but it does get more difficult at Valentine`s Day.   (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Don`t let this bug you, but researchers recently filmed chimpanzees catching insects and then putting them on injuries.  Could this be a form   of animal medicine?  There are a lot of questions here.  For one thing, are bugs effective medication when it comes to healing wounds?   That might need some research.  For another, this could be a first for science.  Even though animals have been known to take care of their young   or apply medicine, like plants, to themselves.  These apes have never been observed applying medicine to another chimp before.  In fact, an animal has never been observed applying insect matter to another animal`s wounds before.  So, if that what was happening here,   scientists think it could be a form of empathy, a sign of individuals caring for others.  The video was captured at Mungo National Park in the   African nation of Gabon. For today`s 10 out of 10 segments, we`re going for the gold and it has nothing to do with the Olympics.  This is Golden`s in Golden Day.  The   first part related to Golden Retrievers, the second related to the city of Golden, Colorado.  One participant, a human, said she thought it was the   best holiday there ever was.  My border collie would snap at that, but there`s no question that this retriever`s a lot of popularity and a lot of   publicity.   But could Golden`s in Golden inspire other related events?  Consider Aussies in Australia, Boston`s in Boston, Chihuahua`s in Chihuahua,   Dalmation`s in Dalmatia, English Fox Hounds in England.  French Bulldogs in France, German Shepherds in Germany, Habanese in Havanah, Irish Setters in   Ireland, Jack Russell`s in Jackson, King Shepherds in Kingston, Labradors in Labrador.  Maltese in Malta, Newfoundland`s in Newfoundland,   Otterhound`s in Ottowa, Papillion`s in Papillion, Queensland`s in Queensland, Rotties in Rotterdam, Sheba`s in Sheba, Tsebin`s in Tibet,   Utanigan`s in Utah, Vezla`s in Visalia, Whippet`s in Wipple, (inaudible), Yorkie`s in Yorkshire and Zvet Pincher`s in (Inaudible). We`ve gone to the   dogs from A to Z.  One more we missed though.  Plots in Plattsburgh, because Plattsburgh, New York is where we are shouting out you, Plattsburgh   High School.  I`m Carl Azuz for CNN. END     

Date: 2022-02-10
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Welcome back to CNN 10 on this February 10th. Extra credit if you`re watching this at 10:10. My name is Carl Azuz. One big question that many countries have been focused on this year is, will Russia invade Ukraine? This is a country on its Western border. Russia   does not like the possibility that Ukraine could join NATO, an alliance of dozens of European nations, the U.S. and Canada.  But that`s something that Ukraine`s president wants to do. His government has received weapons and equipment from the U.S. and other NATO countries,   Russia has given its support to rebels in Eastern Ukraine who want closer ties to Russia and have been fighting Ukrainian government forces. So   there`s already international involvement in what`s happening here. What`s unknown is what happens next.  Russia has repeatedly denied that it`s planning to invade Ukraine, but it`s built up a huge force of troops and equipment along the border, more than   one hundred thousand Russian forces are estimated to be there, with thousands more expected in the coming days. NATO members have been working   together to discourage Russia from invading Ukraine they`ve threatened heavy sanctions, penalties on Russia`s economy if it does. But Ukraine is not currently a member of NATO so a Russian attack may not automatically trigger a broader conflict between Russia and NATO. There`s   just so much that`s unclear at this point some analysts have suggested that Russia may be building up a show of force to try to intimidate NATO, maybe   to get it to promise that Ukraine won`t ever join. Some have suggested that Russia wouldn`t have sent so many troops here if it wasn`t planning an   invasion and that`s something the U.S. says it`s preparing for.  For some Ukrainians near the border, there`s no choice but to wait and see and prepare as best they can. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Kharkiv is Ukraine, glory to Ukraine. Russian troops in ships muster on land and at   sea, and few places in Ukraine feel more vulnerable than Kharkiv.  Here, it`s only 30 miles from the Russian border, a city of about 1.5 million people. At least 75 percent of them speak Russian as a mother   tongue.  Demonstrations like this are important, because this city could be one of the first to get attacked in the event of an invasion.  Volodymyr Zelensky, the president, has warned as much. And U.S. officials are saying that Vladimir Putin could order an attack at any time.  ANNA ZYABLIKOVA, KHARKIV RESIDENT:  Every day, I`m trying to be calm, and I`m trying to go through my daily routine.  But I`m trying to have the thought, okay, where are my documents? Where is food? Where is my mom? Do I have enough money?  KILEY:  In a city that`s been identified as a potential Russian target by the Ukrainian president, there are attempts to carry on as normal. But for   many, this is the new normal.  VIKTORIA MAKARA, BANK MANAGER:  I don`t want to flee, so I need to protect city, my home, my family.  KILEY:  Ukraine has expanded its military, but it`s a long way behind Russia in military might.  So it`s taking these wrecked T-64 tanks from the 1960s and rebuilding them from the chassis up, to rush to the front lines. Much like Ukraine is   trying to build and defend a democracy in a landscape much haunted by the Russian-dominated Soviet Union.  Sam Kiley, CNN, Kharkiv.  (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Scientists may be a step closer to sustaining nuclear fusion. What does that mean? What could it mean?  Nuclear fusion involves joining two or more atoms into a larger atom. This releases a tremendous amount of energy as heat and nuclear fusion could   eventually lead to a sustainable power source that`s less pollutive than coal.  Scientists have generated fusion energy before. The problem is they`ve only been able to sustain it for less than two and a half seconds. That wouldn`t   provide much power.  But this week, researchers in the United Kingdom announced they were recently able to generate and sustain fusion for five seconds. That would   be enough to power one house`s energy for a day and if they`re able to sustain it for longer and still contain the massive amounts of heat, this   could eventually power thousands of homes. Nuclear fusion would produce less waste and require smaller amounts of fuel than current nuclear power, which is created through a different process.   But experts say mastering and actually using fusion is probably a long way off. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Name the only team on this list that has not won at least five Super Bowls? Green Bay Packers, Dallas Cowboys, Pittsburgh Steelers or San Francisco 49ers? All of these teams have at least five championship titles except the Green Bay Packers. They`ve won four. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Inflation as it relates to the Super Bowl is our next subject. There`s new information due out today concerning the dramatic rise in   prices seen over the past year in America. The White House says the data will continue to show a high year-over-year inflation rate and that means   Americans won`t be getting as much for the dollars they spend. Some economists think the problem could get worse before it gets better, but   they are expecting inflation rates to settle down later in 2022. For the time being, the elevated prices could hit Super Bowl fans who live   thousands of miles from where the game`s being played in California. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Playoff time, baby. Games, snacks, drinks -- I mean, what else can you ask for, bro, really?  CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  Planning a big spread for the big game, inflation is your uninvited guest.  Wells Fargo crunched the numbers, it finds the price tag for your Super Bowl party could be 14 percent higher than last year, depending on what you   serve.  The biggest offender? Meat prices. This according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  If you`re a fan of chicken wings, prices for fresh and frozen chicken parts are up nearly 12 percent from last year.  Ground beef for your chili, that`s 13 percent more expensive.  Forget serving steak, prices have soared more than 21 percent from last year.  Now, if you want to cut costs, consider hot dogs. Prices have actually slipped.  Another way to save money, go big on the chips and dip. Potato chips are only up about 1 percent from a year ago.  Avocados are your wild card. USDA data shows retail prices are up more than 50 percent from a year ago.  Of course, it won`t be a Super Bowl party without beverages. A 12-pack of 12-ounce soft drink cans up nearly 12 percent.  Yes, hosting the big game doesn`t come cheap this year, but whatever you spend, you`re still saving money by celebrating at home. This year`s Super   Bowl tickets are the most expensive ever. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  For many people, yelling comes naturally. There are competitions that measure how loudly folks can yell. There are even screamologists. PhDs   who study loud human vocalizations.  A coach might occasionally yell to be heard above the cheers of the crowd or maybe just cause anger. One who`s famous for this recently couldn`t be   on the sidelines but thanks to the magic of social media, we can hear him yell from home. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Do you ever yell at the TV like a maniac? STEFAN BAUMGARDT, GERMAN COACH:  Get to the ball! To the ball! MOOS:  German coach Stefan Baumgardt (ph) is known for yelling and gesturing at his Cologne soccer team from the sidelines.  But when he was sidelined by COVID, all he could do was holler at the TV.  BAUMGARDT:  Guys, we need the ball, get forward! Get forward! Now, go, go, go -- foul! MOOS:  He even wore the same hat he wears at games. His daughter posted the rant on TikTok where German fans declared him a legend. He is the best, but the best supporting player had four legs.  BAUMGARDT:  Man, play the ball into space! MOOS:  He nearly killed that dog by sitting on his head.  BAUMGARDT:  Go on! Finally! MOOS:  It was as if his dog was trying to calm the coach with a little shoulder rub, not once but twice. BAUMGARDT:  What are you doing? MOOS:  As one fan wrote in German, I don`t want to know what would have happened if FC, the coach`s team would have lost. The team won by a single   point but the true hero is the dog that literally got butted and still managed to act like a goal post. Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Some would say with problems, there is never need to yell about it. But your voice must find a way to raise some way if there are ways away or   if they stay away and there`s no way to tell about it. Ice cream, you scream for ice cream, but at the team, that`s controversial. Some leave   raising voices making noises for used car commercials, but just scan the sidelines, you`ll find all kinds when the lines are crossed, who strike a   vocal cord when points are scored to get their points across. I m Carl Azuz for CNN 10. Today`s shout-out takes us to Crosby, North Dakota where we`re happy to see the students of Divide County High School. END     

Date: 2022-02-11
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR: But, soft. What light through yonder window breaks? It is the Friday and it is awesome. I`m Carl Azuz. Welcome to our   last show of the week. In several places along the border between the United States and Canada, convoys of large trucks, tankers and farm   equipment have blocked the passage. These are demonstrations that started two weeks ago in the Canadian capital of Ottawa. Initially truck drivers   were protesting a new rule in Canada that required them to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to cross the border. If they`re not   vaccinated, they have to spend two weeks in quarantine before they can drive through the country.  The demonstrators call their protest "The Freedom Convoy", and while Canada says almost 90 percent of its truckers are fully vaccinated and eligible to   cross the border more groups have joined the protests, speaking out against other COVID restrictions like mask mandates, lockdowns and limits on how   many people can get together. The impact this is having isn`t just on border traffic. Car companies including Ford, General Motors and Toyota   said they`ve had to decrease production or temporarily close plants because they aren`t able to get the supplies they need to make as many cars. Though   some public monuments have reportedly been defaced, the protests have been largely peaceful.  But Canadian government officials haven`t been lawful. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says the demonstrators quote, "don`t have the right to   blockade our economy or our democracy or our fellow citizens daily lives." A protestor interviewed by CNN said he lost he job because he didn`t take a   COVID vaccine and it`s not right for companies to be able to take away people`s livelihoods over that. The blockade that started in Ottawa has   spread to other border crossings between Canada and the U.S. Similar "Freedom Convoy" events have been reported in Australia and New Zealand.  And this week, American government officials said they`ve seen indications that convoys are being organized in the U.S. also in opposition to vaccine   mandates for truck drivers and other restrictions. U.S. officials say demonstrations could impact the Super Bowl on Sunday or President Joe   Biden`s State of the Union speech on March 1st. Authorities say they haven`t seen calls for violence with these demonstrations. They`re expected   to be peaceful, but officials are working with law enforcement to make sure communities are protected.  10 Second Trivia. The first rocket to reach space was made in what country? Soviet Union, United States, Germany or China. In the early 1940s`, a   German V-2 rocket became the first manmade object to reach space.  In 2016, company was founded with the goal of producing rockets, as in using giant three-dimensional printers. Over the past six years, the   company has raised a fortune from investors, $650 million as of last summer according to CNBC but one big question is will these things fly. No one   knows yet. The organization has delayed its maiden launch dates several times. It`s blamed COVID, changes to it`s flagship rocket`s design, changes   to it`s engine and materials. One day it`s founders hope to build a production facility on Mars, but first they`ve got to get their rockets off   the Earth.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What your watching is a rocket being sculpted by a giant 3-D printer.  TIM ELLIS, CO-FOUNDER OF RELATIVITY SPACE: This -- this really is creating the "Star Trek" applicator sci-fi feature that we`ve seen in movies for   many decades, but no one aspired to build it to scale yet but we`re doing that.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Tim Ellis is the co-founder and CEO of Relativity Space. Ellis believe his team has found a way to make cheaper and more   reliable rockets using their 3-D printers they`ve named Stargate. And what are the advantages of 3-D printing a rocket?  ELLIS: Yes. So the advantages really are around automation and part count reduction. So usually and really for the last 60 years, you still walk into   any aerospace factory around the world rockets or other wise, and they`re still building products one at a time by hand with millions of individual   piece parts and these giant factories full of fixed tooling. It takes billions of dollars and year to set up and iterate and change, and so   really the 3-D printing approach we`re doing is the holy grail for automation in aerospace.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And printing rockets means Relativity can build them much faster. Ellis says his team can currently print a rocket in about five   months, and is working to cut that build time even further. Being able to build a rocket in 60 days, 30 days, is that pace really necessary?  ELLIS: It -- it is because it`s about the rate of improvement. So, I think, every 60 days we can build a better version and a better version. So it`s   really about the -- the, kind of, rate of practice because people learn much faster by doing rather than just simulating.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: How does your approach impact the cost of the rocket? Because rockets, as you pointed out, are incredibly expensive   traditionally.  ELLIS: Yes. So -- so versus other rockets of a similar payload cost built traditionally, we -- our rocket is about a quarter of the cost, of other   launch vehicles currently flying. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is Terran-1 here.  ELLIS: Yes.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is your baby.  ELLIS: Yes. This -- this is the baby. So, yes, this is Terran-1. It`s the world`s first entirely 3-D printed rocket fuselage. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The company says Terran-1 will launch in 2022. If all goes well, it will be the first of many launch vehicles Ellis and his team   will print in their Long Beach, California factory. In fact, Relativity`s already hard at work on their larger, reusable heavy lift rocket the   Terran-R. Wow, that`s a pretty serious printer right there . ELLIS: Yes. Yes. And it`s really just the early days too, I think that`s -- that`s -- UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: For Ellis, getting to space is just part of the mission. Fundamentally changing the manufacturing process from big   expensive things like airplanes or wind turbines is just as important.  ELLIS: We`re starting with rockets, but I really see us as the world`s first application layer 3-D company. I -- I think 3-D printing will be able   to build much better products faster. It`s really about increasing the speed of learning and lowering the barriers of entries for trying   experiments.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Three, two, one, zero.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: If this all sounds very ambitious, that`s because it is. Ellis and many on his team have a lot of experience for building   rockets for firms like Blue Origin and Space X, and have raised over $1 billion in funding in just the last year. But Relativity has yet to put a   rocket into space. You guys are building rockets, in a completely different way, in an industry that is inherently risky and about reducing that risk.   Have people been suspicious about this new approach?  ELLIS: You know, we`ve sold more rockets than any other company in history before lunch. So I think, you know, people are quite confident in this   (inaudible) today.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But the proof is in the pudding and you guys haven`t flown yet.  ELLIS: Haven`t flown yet, but all the momentum is there and you`re definitively right. We`ve got to -- we`ve got to show what we`ve got but   major parts of the rocket have already flown a simulated mission on the ground, and so I`m quite confident we`ve gotten over the hump where 3-D   printing a rocket is now inevitable, truly inevitable.  (END VIDEO CLIP)   AZUZ: A woman in Maine got a phone call recently saying her lost cat was found. Two problems, one the phone call was from a shelter in Florida,   1,400 miles away. And two, she didn`t own a cat, so he -- she had owned a cat six years ago. Her name was "Ashes" and she`d run away during a   birthday party. The shelter used a microchip to find her original owner. No one knows how "Ashes" got to Florida and she was a little beat up with a   cold, some missing teeth and a coat that needed healing. But $1,800 later, "Ashes" is back home and thriving.  Was she "catawalling", she was "caterhauling". Her American "crosscatry" journey might not have taken so far as a "Himalayan", "Siberian", "Persian"   or "Norweigan" one. She might not have cross the "Turkish"border or the "Savannah" but it still wasn`t "Siameasy", even if she took a "cabby". She   rang up quite a "tabby". Her owner simply "Maine coonded" believe it. I`m Carl Azuz. Today`s shout out takes us to Marine City, Michigan where we`re   happy to see the students of Cardinal Mooney Catholic High School. "Cats" all for CNN.   END   

Date: 2022-02-14
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Happy Valentine`s Day. We love that you`re taking 10 for today`s show, and we hope everything is going well with you. I`m   Carl Azuz. A lot of eyes worldwide our fixed on what`s happening in China and Ukraine, and we`re covering new events from both places today.   As far as things go with eastern Europe, Russian military forces around Ukraine could invade the country by the end of this week. That`s the word   from the White House. The United States is the biggest contributor to NATO, an alliance for American and European countries and they don`t want Russia   to try to take over Ukraine which is on Russia`s western border.   Russia doesn`t want Ukraine to become a member of NATO. It would consider that a threat too close to home. During disagreements over this issue and   others, Russia has built up a huge military force around Ukraine and NATO has threatened to heavily penalize Russia`s economy if it tries to invade   Ukraine.   On Saturday, U.S. President Joe Biden discussed this in a phone call with Russian President Vladimir Putin. On Sunday, President Biden discussed it   in a phone call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky. American officials say the hope and priority is to resolve the problem   diplomatically so that Russia does not invade Ukraine.   But even though Russia has repeatedly said it`s not planning to, it blames western countries and their media for spreading false information about   that. It also says NATO has failed to address Russia`s main security concerns. So what action the country is planning to take is anyone`s guess.   Over the weekend, the U.S. moved some of its troops out of Ukraine. America does not plan to involve them directly in a war with Russia, and the U.S.   evacuated most of its embassy staff as well. Ukrainian President Zelensky has said he doesn`t think a Russian attack is going to happen anytime soon,   but if and when it does the timing of all things could depend on the weather.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Across much of Ukraine, it`s been a mild winter. Still plenty of snow but much of it turning to slush. The Sea of Azov less icy   than normal for the beginning of February. According to the latest data, temperatures are running between one and three degrees Celsius higher than   the 30-year average, and that just might make a difference to any Russian military offensive.   JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: For them to move and -- and -- and occupy the whole country, particularly from the north from Belarus.   It`s -- he`s going to wait a little bit until the ground`s frozen.   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The view in Washington is that a Russian offensive needs frozen ground given Ukraine`s landscape.   GENERAL MARK MILLEY, CHAIR OF THE U.S. JOINT CHIEF OF STAFF: Prominent terrain includes flat open plains, and there are abundance and rivers and   lakes and there`s a high water table. And when the high water table freezes, it makes it for optimal conditions for cross country tracked and   wheeled vehicle maneuver.   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It`s not so much that modern tanks get bogged down in wet conditions, but the support they need can do.   JD WILLIAMSON, RAND CORPORATION, SENIOR DEFENSE RESEARCH: More importantly than the track vehicles themselves is what they need to sustain themselves,   which is fuel and ammunition which are very heavy and are generally carried by wheeled vehicles that need good roads.   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Even the Russians admit that in some areas wet conditions can be a factor.   VLADIMIR CHIZHOV, RUSSIAN AMBASSADOR TO THE EUROPEAN UNION: If you studied geography of the area, actually the southern part of Belarus close to the   Ukrainian border is very swampy area which is hardly fitting for certain active engagement of tanks and other heavy weaponry.   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It`s not just the conditions on the ground. It`s the skies as well. Clear skies are important for reconnaissance and   intelligence gathering, and for landing assault troops.   WILLIAMSON: Cloudy weather, rain, snow, all of that would inhibit the reconnaissance measures that you would use to find the targets, and if you   can`t find the targets precisely than -- than the effect that your fires are going to have are going to be diminished.   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But in the initial phase of any conflict, some experts say that Russia would likely opt for weapons that can operate in any   weather, long-range artillery, ballistic missiles. They would seek to take out Ukrainian command and control not frontline forces. Satellite imagery   indicates that such weapons have brought forward to positions near the Ukrainian border.   (END VIDEO CLIP)  AZUZ: 10 Second Trivia. What was featured for the first time at the 1900 Summer Olympics? A Marathon, Women`s Events, Cycling, or an Asian host   city. Four years after the first modern Olympics in 1896, women were allowed to compete for the first time.   One hundred and twenty-two years later, female competitors are still making Olympic history. Norway`s Marta Olsbu Roiseland became the first woman to   win four biathlon medals at a single Olympics. U.S. snow boarder Chloe Kim became the first woman to win back-to-back gold`s in the half-pipe.   U.S. skater Erin Jackson became the first black American woman to win an Olympic speed skating medal, it was gold, and at age 35 snowboarder Lindsey   Jacobellis became the oldest American woman to win gold and she won two. But a number of other women and men who qualified and made it to Beijing   have been unable to compete or even train. China`s strict COVID containment laws have kept the in isolation.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  SELINA WANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT: From Olympic dream to quarantine, a nightmare scenario. Athletes who test positive like Norwegian Olympian Jarl   Magnus Ruber, whisked out of the Olympic village in an ambulance into this dystopian reality. Workers in hazmat suits carry his Olympic luggage into   the isolation facility. The overwhelming smell of disinfectant.   They go through paperwork, take his vitals, feeling healthy but making it out to compete he tells me is a slim possibility. The gold medalist in the   Nortic-Combined skiing event, trapped in this room for more than a week, running back and forth over and over again just to stay in shape. His   happiest day here, getting his bike delivered. The confinement ruining years of preparation.    JARL MAGNUS RUBER, NORWEGIAN OLYMPIAN: I hope for a miracle. Yes, it destroys a lot because you have (inaudible) in your shape so much to this   event.   WANG: But for it to end, athletes have to deliver two negative PCR tests with at least 24 hours in between, than after that, seven more days of   isolation at the Olympic village. For some athletes, it`s already too late. American ice skating star Vincent Zhou telling fans he`s out of the games   because of COVID even though he`s taken every precaution possible. In a heart wrenching video, he shares what he would tell his younger self.   VINCENT ZHOU, UNITED STATES OLYMPIAN: Just the pain of it all is -- is pretty insane.   WANG: More than 400 Olympic personnel have tested positive for COVID, athletes tell me that isolation hotels like that one are getting full, but   they couldn`t feel more isolated and anxious knowing that their Olympic dreams could end in there. American bobsledder, Josh Williamson stuck in   California after testing positive.   JOSH WILLIAMSON, UNITED STATES OLYMPIAN: I had, kind of, done everything I can and that`s one of those things where it`s a hard pill to swallow when   it`s something that might be out of your control.   WANG: Swedish curler Sofia Maborgs documents her rollercoaster week for CNN.   SOFIA MABORGS, SWEDISH OLYMPIAN: -- can finally start packing my stuff again. I`m, like, all emotional now.   WANG: After agonizing days of positive tests, she finally recovered making her way to the games.   MABORGS: Get the Olympic experience started.   WANG: For theses Olympics, even the little things like embracing friends is a victory.   MABORGS: I get to hug my friends and best teammates ever.   WANG: Selina Wang, CNN, Beijing.   (END VIDEO CLIP)  AZUZ: Fifty-two world records in 52 weeks, that was the goal that David Rush set for himself last year. He`s a dude who`s made a career out of   breaking world records and using the publicity to promote STEM education. So let`s get educated on some of his feats.   Putting on T-shirts, setting up chess board with one hand, catching grapes in mouth while juggling, balancing toilet rolls on head, catching ping-pong   balls and shaving foam, whatever this is, fastest time for wrapping a person in cling wrap. It benefits David that Guinness publishes a wide   array of records. The company told NPR news it`s officially recognized 43 of his 52 attempts, with the others under review, but Guinness says it   wants him to break 53 this year.   That`s a lot to "juggle", especially with some up in the "air". But if your job is making records by breaking records, I guess setting records is where   you "beGuinness". And no one who does this weekly is doing so "weakly", recording "record records" requires record setting strength.   I`m Carl Azuz for CNN 10. Today`s shout out takes us to Harlowton, Montana where we`re happy to see the student of Harlowton High School. Thank you   for engineering your request on our You Tube channel.   END  

Date: 2022-02-15
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi, I`m Carl Azuz.  We`re glad you`re hanging 10 with us today.  In the stock market, crude oil is sold by the barrel.  One   barrel contains 42 gallons of oil, and the price of oil per barrel just hit $95 on Monday.  It was the first time in eight years it was that expensive   and this is expected to have ripple effects that drive up prices across many of the things we buy.   Crude oil prices are the biggest factor in the cost of gasoline.  You hear a lot about electric cars, but they only account for a small percentage,   less than five percent of the U.S. car market.  The vast majority of vehicles depend on gasoline to get around, and when those prices go up it   becomes more expensive both to drive and to transport the goods and groceries we use. Rising oil prices are also associated with rising inflation.  The overall increase in costs was at 7.5 percent last month over January 2021, and that   was inflation`s highest level since 1982 so things could get worse there as well.  Why is this happening?  One big reason is uncertainty about the   situation in Ukraine, which we discussed on yesterday`s show.   On Monday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Russia was expected to attack his country on February 16th, but after that one of his advisors   said he spoke quote, "with irony", so questions there.  Either way though, the United States announced it was closing its embassy in the Ukrainian   capital of Kyiv.  The American stock market fell while oil prices climbed, and what remains to be seen is whether things will stay that way or   normalize in the days ahead. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Add gas prices to the list of surging costs weighing on American`s wallet.   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The price has been a little bit more each time. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The national average now around $3.44 a gallon, up more than $1 from a year ago and the highest since 2014 and it`s only getting   worse approaching the record national average of $4.11.  Do you think we could hit that record in the months ahead? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I think we have a very good chance. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It`s a nation with supply and demand dating back to the start of COVID.  Just look at this rollercoaster chart of U.S. gas prices   over time.  In March 2020, prices plummeted.  Americans weren`t on the road.  Oil producers, including OPEC, cut back on investments and on   operations.  They had no where to store extra oil. HELIMA CROFT, GLOBAL HEAD OF COMMODITY STRATEGY:  They laid of employees.  They didn`t work their rigs. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Demand for fuel skyrocketed, more than experts expected and the oil industry didn`t have the supply.  They`re still playing catch   up.   MIKE SOMMERS, CEO, AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE:  You can`t just turn on a spigot.  These are long cycle projects.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  So, gas prices have been surging for 14 months, only briefly dipping during Omicron.  Demand is back at pre-pandemic levels,   even AAA can`t explain that. ANDREW GROSS, AAA SPOKESPERSON:  They`re trying to, kind of, figure it out right now. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And the conflict on the Ukrainian border is adding a new strain.  Russia is the second largest oil producer.  If the crisis   escalates, JP Morgan says oil prices could soar from $91 a barrel to $120.   CROFT:  If we were to see Russia potentially withhold energy exports, the question would be who could make up for that?   PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN, UNITED STATES PRESIDENT:  I`m going to work like the devil to bring gas prices down. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It`s a huge political problem for the Biden Administration, which says it`s now engaging with the oil producing   countries to increase production, preparing to go after firms that manipulate prices and considering dipping back into the strategic petroleum   reserve.  In November they announced the release of 50 million barrels from that supply. PATRICK DE HAAN, HEAD OF PETROLEUM ANALYSIS FOR GASBUDDY:  It resulted in - - in very little -- more like negligible impact. CROFT:  At this price point, you`ll start to see more production come back but there`s still a gap that needs to be filled. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  But as of now, oil prices are expected to keep rising for months adding fuel to inflation on everything from groceries to store   goods and driving price hikes at the pump. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It`s not just my car.  It`s every single aspect of my life is impacted by gas prices. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  10 Second Trivia.  What nation whose capital is Muscat borders Saudi Arabia and the Arabian Sea?  Oman, Sri Lanka, United Arab Emirates or   Yemen.  Oman, a nation of 3.6 million, is a monarchy bordering the Arabian Sea.   Rugged mountains rise in the northern and southern parts of Oman according to the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency, and that`s where most of the   population lives.  The middle part of the country, which is hot and dry is sparsely populated.  But with such varied topography, mountains, plains,   cliffs and coasts, Oman is a nation rich in biodiversity and that`s why a professor from another continent entirely is working in Oman to conserve   it`s natural features. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ERIKA CUELLER SOTO, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR FOR SULTAN QUABOOS UNIVERSITY:  When you start working in arid land, the first thing you imagine is   emptiness, but you would be amazed of the diversity hidden.  My name is Erika Cueller Soto. I am originally from Bolivia but I am here in Oman   working as a professor teaching conservation, (inaudible) biology and biodiversity.   So together with mangroves, we have a species like this and they -- they depend on the -- on the mangrove formation.   I am here at the Sultan Quaboos University.  I have students from different parts of the country, and for me this is very strategic because when they   finish the university, they are fresh biologists and they will go back to their areas in -- in the country.  We are developing a very, very   interesting cooperation with the Natural History Museum in -- in Muscat.  We are developing a project with the students in order to contribute with   samples for the museum to represent the diversity of the country.   Here -- here as you can see. Young generations are very interested in technology.  So, it`s a challenge for me to just attract them to see the nature in  -- in a different way.   We just want to take sample of this.  OK.  We want to see the sediment or - - or -- They are mainly desert people, to be inside the forest is so refreshing.  It`s so different to what they`re used to see.   (INAUDIBLE) SOTO:  I take the students to different environments and the mangroves are something that really attract them. Conservation in the Middle East is   important in any place in the world.  We are facing a very difficult time in terms of health of our planet.  I am hopeful that at the same time, I   want them to be realistic.  I want them to understand that we need to invest in gaining knowledge and -- and -- and advancing in science.  I   believe that -- that this region deserves attention.  It`s a very rich area and we shouldn`t ignore it and we shouldn`t ignore any arid lands.   (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Most pilots will generally tell you that a helicopter is harder to fly than an airplane.  So would you let a computer do it?  This is the   inside of a military Blackhawk helicopter.  As you can see, it has two pilots available but they ain`t flying it.  This chopper is getting ready   to fly itself and this is apparently that`s ever happened.  The first autonomous Blackhawk flight reportedly went well.   It took off, avoided an obstacle and landed and while the pilots were there to monitor it, they did not actively control it. The technology to do this   was designed by the Lockheed Martin Aerospace Company.  It was added to an existing helicopter, not one that was redesigned from the ground up.  The   U.S. military says it`s looking at using this autonomous technology in the future.   Misha the tiger apparently knew all along that the L.A. Rams would win the Super Bowl.  Oh you think she would have picked the Cincinnati Bengals, but   Misha herself is not a Bengal.  She`s an Amur or Siberian tiger and she went against her own family.  When we say that we mean she licked the glass   under the Rams logo instead of the Bengals one, even though they had the same scent.  The animals at this Iowa zoo have reportedly picked the winner   eight out of 11 games. But would she have done the same thing for the Panthers or the Jaguars, then you could say "cat`s got her tongue".  And in the circus of NFL   mascots, she could pick from lions or bengals or bears, oh my.  So will she be quick to lick, pick or make stick the 2023 game winner, that could   depend on who has the "purrfect" season.  Who has the best "clawwwws" to win, who`s the "stalk" of the town and whether Misha`s "Super Bowl" is   filled with meat.  I`m Carl Azuz.  Today`s shout out takes us to Romeoville, Illinois where we are thrilled to see the students of   Romeoville High School.  Come on back tomorrow for more CNN.       END     

Date: 2022-02-16
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR: On this sweet 16th of February, we`re glad you found time to check out our show. I`m Carl Azuz. We`re looking up today.   There is a rogue rockets hurdling through space right now that`s expected to smack into the moon next month, but where did it come from?    That is a question that`s been hanging in the air, get it, for years.  At first, an independent researcher who studies orbital dynamics thought the object came from a SpaceX rocket that was launched in 2015. Other space   experts and NASA agreed with him, but over the past few days, scientists said they came to the conclusion that the object isn`t part of the SpaceX   rocket because it`s too far away from where another part of that vehicle flew.   So again, whose rocket is it? Now the prevailing theory is that it`s part of a Chinese booster that was launched in 2014. The rocket is expected to   crash into the far side of the moon on March 4th. Researchers don`t expect people to be able to see this from Earth.   The rocket stage is expected to be completely destroyed and to make a crater anywhere from 30 to 65 feet wide. There are dozens of objects like   this that people have lost in deep space, and an astronomer interviewed by CNN says no space agencies have done a thorough job of keeping up with   them. So he says this highlights the need for organizations like NASA to monitor deep space junk instead of relying on private individuals to do   that.   And another researcher says more thought needs to be put into keeping outer space clean. That could start with more reusable spacecraft and the space   flight company SpaceX is trying to get its reusable`s Starship rocket off the ground.   It can`t test it in orbit for the first time until it gets the green light from the U.S. government, and that can`t happen until the Federal Aviation   Administration completes its environmental review of the SpaceX facility in south Texas. Critics have said they`re concerned that wildlife in this area   could be threatened by SpaceX launches. The FAA report has been delayed a couple times, and it`s now due out in March 28th.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  RACHEL CRANE, CNN INNOVATION AND SPACE CORRESPONDENT: I`m here at Starbase, Texas where Elon Musk gave his first update on SpaceX`s Starship Program in   two years. Now I just want to point out that over my shoulder, you can see the Starship spacecraft, two of them actually, and they are sitting there   next to this super heavy booster.   Now the booster is what`s blast that spacecraft into space and that`s essentially SpaceX`s R&D facility where they`ve been iterating and working   on the Starship Program. Now over my other shoulder here, I want to bring you to the vehicle being fully stacked. Now it`s on the launch pad and it   stands nearly 400 feet tall.   The vehicle is completely reusable and when ignited this thing has more than twice the thrust of the Saturn V which is, of course, the rocket that   brought people to the moon during the Apollo era. So this is really a gargantuan vehicle. Musk spending a lot of time talking about why his   company SpaceX is working on this program. He believes that Starship will be able to bring people back to the moon and one day to Mars. Take a   listen.    ELON MUSK, CEO OF SPACEX: Starship is capable of doing that. It`s capable of -- of getting -- getting a million tons (inaudible) of Mars and creating   a self-sustaining city. This is the first point in the four and a half billion year history of Earth that it has been possible.   CRANE: Before they can launch from Starbase, Texas to orbit, they need FAA approval, and SpaceX and Musk hopes to have that in a matter of weeks and   they hope to make that first orbital test launch here from Starbase, Texas. Musk also laid out very ambitious goals of having three launches a day,   painted a picture of floating spaceports launching from Kennedy Space Center, really all over the world.   So, you know, there`s -- there`s -- there`s a very ambitious goal of ultimately one day achieving that long goal of creating a self-sustaining   city on Mars.   (END VIDEO CLIP)  AZUZ: 10 Second Trivia. The worst drought that the U.S. ever faced occurred in what decade? 1870s`, 1930s`, 1950s` or 1980s`. The U.S. government says   the most significant droughts in American history were during the Dust Bowl period of the 1930s`.  The Dust Bowl covered several states in the central U.S. It was actually a series of dust storms and droughts that came one after another. Extreme   heat was also a part of it, and it`s considered the benchmark for record drought in America. The U.S. government says droughts are normal but   they`ve happened naturally at different levels throughout history.   But a new study suggests that between the year 2000 and 2021, a drought in the American west could be that region`s worst in 1,200 years. The city of   Los Angeles, California is exploring new ways to recycle water. It`s not the only part of the world that`s bone dry.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: On the border of Spain and Portugal, a village, swallowed by the Zezere River in 1992 to make wave for a reservoir has now   emerged as a ghost. Visitors walking on the muddy ground cracked by drought, found partially clapped roofs, bricks and wooden debris that once   made up doors or beams. Over the years, onlookers were able to see the roofs peeking out of the water during drought season, but the extreme   drought this year has revealed the village in its entirety.   The Iberian Peninsula home to Portugal and Spain is experiencing one of the driest winters on record, which is draining out reservoirs, worrying   farmers and residents. Official records show Spain received only a quarter of precipitation it normally gets in January and water reserves are now at   less than half of their capacity.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE TRANSLATED: If in these months when it should be raining the most, it is not raining then the reserves don`t refill. Also their   capacity, their water quantity will continue to drop and that can be quite worrying for the future.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE: In neighboring Portugal, drone footage shows boats docked along dry banks, as river waters recede. Earlier this month,   Portugal ordered five of its hydropower dams to halt water use for electricity production to save enough for people`s daily use.  Antonio   Estivao (ph) is one of the farmers who is struggling to feed his livestock. Many are worried their crops for the season will be ruined.   (END VIDEO CLIP)  AZUZ: Just over 100 million people in America are estimated to have watched Sunday`s Super Bowl. It won`t break the viewership record set seven years   ago when 114 million people watched, but the game is still the most viewed annual event on TV and that`s why companies pay so much to advertise during   it. Likely a record $6.5 million this year for a 30 second commercial. But advertisers don`t always get the response they are hoping for.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Were you one of those people chasing a QR code around your TV screen during the Super Bowl? Even getting down on your   knees? Or maybe like this 95-year-old grandma, you were saying, what is that?   (INAUDIBLE)  MOOS: Or maybe you were at a Super Bowl Party with guests who rooted for the code more than for the Rams or the Bengals.   (CROSSTALK)  MOOS: It zipped around the screen for 60 seconds. A nod to the old bouncing DVD screensaver that became a meme, even ending up on "The Office".   UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There`s this cube on the screen and it bounces around all day and sometimes it looks like it`s heading right into the corner of   the screen and at the last minute it hit`s a wall and bounces away.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, where`s Waldo?   (LAUGHTER)  MOOS: But this QR code commercial was for the crypto currency trading company Coinbase, and if your phone captured the code you were supposed to   get an offer for $15 in free Bitcoin for signing up. But a lot of folks got this instead, we`re having connection issues.   Others got, planned maintenance in progress, what Coinbase apparently didn`t plan for was this. We saw over 20 million plus hits on our landing   page in one minute. This volume led to us temporarily throttling our systems. For some --  (INAUDIBLE)  MOOS: Someone else complimented the big brain of the guy that came up with that ad, but a critic tweeted the company should have saved the $7 million   ad cost and spent it on your servers. Actually 60 seconds probably cost at least $13 million, but who`s counting when fans are cheering a QR code like   it`s a QB scoring a touchdown.   (CROSSTALK)  MOOS: Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York.   (END VIDEO CLIP)  AZUZ: Some may have seen that and thought "QR" not getting me to click. I`ve scanned ads before, this one seems a little "cryptic", and even if   it`s code for a "bit of coin", I get plenty of screen time without taking "game time" to "screen" the "screen" and use a "screen" to "screen" and   then "scan the screen" in time, but again some could just hit pause.   I`m Carl Azuz for CNN 10. Today`s shoutout takes us to the Heights of Cleveland where we are shouting out Cleveland Heights High School. Thank   you for watching from Ohio and for your request on our YouTube channel.    END  

Date: 2022-02-17
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  5G is the new G so 3G`s going like 2D.  That pretty much sums up our first story today.  I`m Carl Azuz and let me   explain.  Fifth generation, or 5G, is the latest wireless technology available.  It offers faster internet speeds and better performance than   previous generations.   It has its downsides, 5G requires more cellular towers than other networks.  It may be years before some rural areas get it, and there are always   concerns about new technologies being hacked, but wireless providers are expanding their 5G availability.  And when they do that, it leaves less   room on the wireless spectrum, the radio waves that these technologies use are limited.  So what companies are doing is phasing out 3G, their third-  generation technology to make room for 5G.   When will this happen?  AT&T will shut down it`s 3G network next week.  T- Mobile and Verizon will do it later this year. Here`s why this matters.  There are still devices that use 3G, and those devices may no longer work   once the network is shutdown.   Companies have been pushing people to upgrade their 3G smartphones, e- readers and tablets.  Some medical devices and home alarm systems may still need to be updated, and millions of cars could be affected by this   especially it they`re more than five years old.  Vehicles that use 3G modems could have problems with GPS and traffic information.   Those with the ability to call police if there`s an accident could fail if their software isn`t upgrade to at least 4G technology. Some car makers   have offered fixes for this, others reportedly haven`t.  So many drivers may lose features in their cars if they haven`t upgraded them or if an   update simply isn`t available.  Wireless carriers have shutdown networks before. AT&T and Verizon eliminated their 2G coverage in 2017.   10 Second Trivia.  Since 1924, what country has won the most medals in the Winter Olympics?  Soviet Union, Germany, United States or Norway.  The   European nation of Norway has the most medals overall and the most golds of any country, and when we produced this show, Norway was leading in those   counts in these games.  But a lot of media attention has centered on a Russian figure skater.  Olympics officials say they have a zero-tolerance   policy when it comes to doping, taking certain performance enhancing drugs that have been banned.  In December, 15-year-old Kamila Valieva tested   positive for one of these substances.   But this wasn`t reported to Russia`s anti-doping agency until February after she helped her team win a gold medal, Valieva was suspended from   these Olympics.  But she was reinstated, allowed to compete again after she appealed the ruling. Valieva says her grandfather uses the drug and that   she must have accidentally ingested it.  She`ll stay on the ice while the investigation takes place.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) SELINA WANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  This doping scandal around Russian figure skater Kamila Valieva continues to cast a dark shadow over the Olympic   games, as new details emerge.  Fifteen-year-old Valieva reportedly had three different substances in her drug test sample.  These substances are   all used to treat a heart condition, but only one of the drugs is considered a banned substance.  But I spoke to the CEO of the U.S. Anti-  Doping Agency who told me that all three of the drugs have performance enhancing capabilities including increasing endurance, reducing fatigue.    He said that the fact that all three of these drugs were mixed together suggests a deliberate and sophisticated attempt to improve performance. CNN and Tygart reviewed a document that show Valieva had declared the use of two other drugs hypoxen and L-carnitine that are, again, not considered   banned substances but what Tygart says are also used to improve performance.  Now the decision to allow Kamila Valieva to continue to   compete at these Olympics is causing outrage.  Some former athletes, Olympians, saying that this is tainting the entire Olympic experience.  If   Valieva places in the top three this week, which she is expected to she will not receive a medal, the other competitors will not receive a medal.    No medals will be awarded until a full investigation is complete.   (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Lumber is getting more expensive in America.  This is the building block of new homes, and its cost last May hit an all-time record high.    It`s fallen sharply then risen again since then, and while lumber still isn`t as expensive now as it was last Spring a forest industry report says   it`s triple what it was before corona virus took it`s toll.  What does that mean?   New single-family homes are almost $19,000 more expensive than they`d normally be according to a Home Builders Association.  Reasons for this   include ongoing problems with the supply chain of goods and challenges in transporting wood.  Sawmills have had trouble keeping up with demand, other   factors are biological and political. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  If the definition of inflation is too many dollars chasing no enough goods, well this is what happens when too many houses   chase not enough wood.  How you would you characterize the price of lumber today?   JOHN RIDDLE, HOME BUILDER, VICE-PRESIDENT:  Volatile.  Yes.  It is up and down.  It got to the point where we were just adding 20 to 30 percent just   because and hopefully that will cover it.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It`s all they can talk about at the National Association of Home Builders Convention at Orlando this week, starting with   a sticker poll. JERRY HOWARD, CEO, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF HOME BUILDERS:  Down here is one person who said it`s been by 75 percent.  At a normal time, if the cost of   a building material were to increase by 75 percent people would be coming unglued, but look what it is.  Most of them are 200 percent or more. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Right.  There are a few reasons why, but the problem begins in the Canadian Rockies.  The source of almost one in every three   boards hammered into American homes, and where a plague of beetles arrived with the power to kill 100,000 trees a day.  So many you can hear them over   the phone. JANICE COOKE, FOREST BIOLOGIST, UNIVERSITY OF ALBERTA:  And you could actually hear the beetles underneath the bark.  So I`m listening to my   trees getting killed. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Oh my god.  Forest Biologist Janice Cooke has studied the invasion of Mountain Pine beetles for decades.   COOKE:  Warmer over winters and hotter, drier summers, we saw those populations not only rise to epidemic levels but in some areas what we call   hyper epidemic.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Mountain Pine beetles attack a single tree like an invading army, and to defend itself the large poll pine fill its cracks   with this sticky chemical compound we know as pitch.  Well, this turns out to be highly flammable.  So in the end if the beetles win, you`ve got a 50-  foot firestarter.  Beetle kill forests help accelerate those western mega fires, and all together 50 million acres have been lost up here an area the   size of Minnesota. COOKE: We have more than 30 mill closures in the interior B.C. alone.  Mills are not running 24/7 anymore. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  In the meantime, there is the 40-year-old trade war with the United States and based on an old formula tariffs on Canadian wood   automatically doubled recently.  Joe Biden could dial those back, but like Canada he`s also protecting more Federal trees especially the old growth   stands in places like Tongass National Forest. RIDDLE:  The Biden Administration has cut back on the harvesting of timber on our Federal lands for environmental purposes.  And so we need more   lumber from -- from outside, the Biden Administration, it has not gone to the table to negotiate a long-term deal with Canada.  So once again we`ve   got to look somewhere else.  In fact, we`ve opened up discussions with the German government about bringing in more from Germany. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And more builders like John Riddle in Winterpark Florida are finding lumber alternatives, by injecting these stackable foam   molds with concrete.  He says he creates walls 50 percent more energy efficient and 100 percent more fireproof.  This seems to me, as we-- as we   watch zoning regulations change in California due to wildfires like an amazing solution. RIDDLE:  Yes, that doesn`t burn.  Concrete won`t burn.  In my mind, there`s no reason why this is not more prevalent.   COOKE:  This is the business case for considering our forests and our trees in our forests, for their entire ecosystem services and not just the price   of a 2x4. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  It`s not every day you meet a 15 year old basketball player who can dunk.  Then again, it`s not every day you meet one who`s 7 feet 5 inches   tall so the dunking thing is kind of a footnote.  Oliver Rioux is the tallest teenager on Earth according to Guinness World Records.  His mom is   6`2".  His dad is 6`8".  His shoe size is 20 and Ollie`s reportedly a strong passer and three-point shooter making him a quadruple threat on his   Florida team. It`s no "tall tale", "small tale", "fish or other false tale".  All "hail" "Ollie`s highness".  Maybe now`s the time to sign this "finest phenom" you   can`t "short", at the "heights" of high school sports, he`s the sort on the court.  Scouts will want to "court of court".  Everybody`s "looking up" to   the "tallest baller" they have met who fills the "big shoes" of "long legged" "legacy" with nothing but "net".  I`m Carl Azuz.  "Dunking" puns   and rhymes on CNN 10.  Today`s shout out takes us to Winder-Barrow High School.  It is great to see all of ya`ll in Winder, Georgia.  Our You Tube   channel is the only place we look for shout out schools.   END 

Date: 2022-02-18
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  An Olympic sweep, Friday just won straight golds for awesome. I`m Carl Azuz. Thank you for watching our Friday show. We have   different views today from different locations in a stand-off over Ukraine.   For weeks, the world`s been wondering if Russia is planning to invade this country. Russia has built up a huge military force surrounding Ukraine,   100,000 troops or more according to U.S. estimates. Russia borders Ukraine and it hopes to limit western influence in that country. As part of that,   Russia wants a promise that Ukraine won`t ever join NATO, an alliance of European and North American countries but NATO won`t promise that and   Ukraine`s government wants to become a member of NATO. So that`s a major sticking point in the geopolitical tensions hovering over this country.  As of Thursday evening, there was a lot of back and forth   about what was going to happen there.  Was Russia on the brink of an invasion or was the country just hoping the appearance of one would   pressure NATO to make political changes?  Some experts have suggested that, but here`s what U.S. President Joe Biden said yesterday.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN, UNITED STATES PRESIDENT:  Every indication we have is they`re prepared to go into Ukraine, attack Ukraine.  My sense it will   happen within the next several days. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  The U.S. government also says Russia might be preparing to fake a reason to invade, like it might make up news of a terrorist bombing inside   Russia to justify its plans to attack Ukraine.  Russia has repeatedly said it has no plans to invade Ukraine.  It says claims that it is are baseless   and rooted in hysteria incited by the United States.  Russia also says it`s reduced the number of its troops near Ukraine`s border, but American   officials say Russia has actually added troops near that border.  It`s hard to tell exactly what`s going on there. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  A very public display, Russia Ministry of Defense posting video of armor leaving Crimea across the Kerch Strait and it says   returning to their home bases.  Their participation in exercise said to be over.  A few hours later, another convoy of fuel trucks filmed getting   ready to leave Crimea as well and then filmed on that same bridge also heading east.  All part of a choreographed effort by the Kremlin in the   ongoing information war over its intentions in Ukraine.  Russian diplomats across Europe scoff at western claims that an attack is imminent.  But both   U.S. officials and NATO officials, including the secretary general say in fact Russian troop numbers are continuing to rise.     JENS STOLTENBERG, NATO SECRETARY GENERAL:  So just that we see movement of forces, (inaudible) doesn`t confirm a real withdraw.  It has been a big up   and down, back and forth all the way, but the trend of the last weeks and months has been a steady increase in the Russian capabilities close to   Ukraine`s borders.   WALSH:  This is one of the videos issued Tuesday by Russia`s Defense Ministry on units beginning, it claims, to go home.  Followed up on   Wednesday with more footage of the tanks loading onto trains, destination unknown.  Back in Crimea, the much-advertised pull-out involves units whose   bases are in any case around Russian cities still close to Ukraine.  Analysts say it will take several days to establish whether there is a true   draw down of Russian forces from positions around Ukraine.  For now, the picture remains mixed.  There is plenty of Russian armor and air power   still within just a few miles of the Ukrainian border.  This according the social media videos uploaded in the past day.   Satellite images from earlier this week show fighter bombers and helicopters arriving at air bases close to Ukraine.  The joint exercises in   Belarus continue as well, but the Belarus defense minister insists every piece of Russian equipment will leave when those exercises are over.  All   the while a very public war of words continues over Ukraine`s aspirations to join NATO, over the fate of the breakaway eastern regions of Ukraine,   and over Russia`s demands for cast iron security guarantees.  President Putin and Russian officials repeat that Ukraine`s desire to join NATO must   be off the table, that however is a non-starter for the U.S.  So far, the path to diplomacy and much of the weaponry seem frozen in place.   (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  American officials say in a way, they`ll be relieved if they`re wrong, that while U.S. intelligence indicates Russia`s about to invade some   critics have questioned that intelligence and the American government says it would ultimately be a good thing if Russia changes course and pulls back   from Ukraine.  The United States and it`s NATO allies have threatened severe economic punishments if Russia invades, and as you`re about to see   more U.S. troops and military equipment have arrived in eastern Europe.  President Biden has repeatedly said that U.S. troops will not fight in   Ukraine.  That they won`t battle Russian forces on the ground there, but several of the countries that border Ukraine are members of NATO.  So the   American presence in the region is meant to send a message to Russia and to reassure NATO countries that America has their back.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) NICK PATON WALSH, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  They don`t really want you to see this, but it`s hard to hide.  These are U.S. troops landing near   the Polish border with Ukraine high-end Blackhawks, C-17 cargo planes, dozens in the past days.  Media haven`t been given official access but   they`re pretty hard to miss.  Trucks, pallets, signs the 82nd Airborne from Fort Bragg arrived here, an hour`s drive from Ukraine, just overnight.    They even came this day with a Cessna light aircraft, which seemed to be innocently carrying top brass who get onto a nearby helicopter.  Moscow may   point to these scenes as NATO massing troops on Ukraine`s border, but these are here with the approval of Poland, a NATO member.   In a stand-off that`s all about messaging, these American troops are about assuring U.S. allies feel their presence.  The unit we saw camped to a   near-by conference center.  They`re here just in case, to help stranded Americans in Ukraine if they need arises.  These sort of movements in NATO   war games and drills have been practiced for years.  They don`t really want us to see this, the larger base where they are.  Are the American`s over   here?  This is their main base.  Yes?   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Well, we can`t talk about this. WALSH:  I understand.  Can we talk to somebody about this or?   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  No.   WALSH:  They walk right by us.  Come on -- don`t be afraid.  It`s alright.  And the signs of the operation, there are a lot of tents over a wide area   is both what you might expect to support that many soldiers but also something that is almost definitely not for show, and portrays a lot of   readiness even if you hope they all stay bored and cold on the canvas in the weeks ahead. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  10 Second Trivia.  Which of these world capitals is located the farthest north?  Ottawa, Moscow, Stockholm or Oslo.  The Norwegian capital   of Oslo is just a bit farther north than Stockholm, Sweden.   Lost and found, at sea.  Students at New Hampshire`s Rye Junior High School launched a mini-boat in October of 2020.  It had leaves, quarters and a   facemask in side, kind of like a 21st century message in a bottle.  The school followed it through GPS until the tracker apparently gave out last   fall, but then in late January a ping.  The boat indicated it was on an island in Norway.  A sixth grader there helped retrieve the damaged vessel   and now two schools are connected through a boat`s Trans-Atlantic trip.  It`s a "keely" good "boatcome", considering in "mast" cases a vessel with   missing "ports" faces an "uphole" battle when weather warnings are stirring.   Sails hit the deck, waves and skies "boom"; all "rope" is lost if it`s not "transomething" it`s a "rudder".  Which is why people "wave" around that   phrase "whatever floats your boat".  I`m Carl Azuz.  Today`s shout out takes us to Wellington, Florida.  It is great to see the students of Palm   Beach Central High School watching.  Thank you for doing that.  We will be off the air Monday for the Presidents Day holiday.  So, we hope to see you   right back here on the 22nd for more CNN. END     

Date: 2022-02-22
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR: On this sweet 16th of February, we`re glad you found time to check out our show. I`m Carl Azuz. We`re looking up today.   There is a rogue rockets hurdling through space right now that`s expected to smack into the moon next month, but where did it come from?   That is a question that`s been hanging in the air, get it, for years. At first, an independent researcher who studies orbital dynamics thought the   object came from a SpaceX rocket that was launched in 2015. Other space experts and NASA agreed with him, but over the past few days, scientists   said they came to the conclusion that the object isn`t part of the SpaceX rocket because it`s too far away from where another part of that vehicle   flew.   So again, whose rocket is it? Now the prevailing theory is that it`s part of a Chinese booster that was launched in 2014. The rocket is expected to   crash into the far side of the moon on March 4th. Researchers don`t expect people to be able to see this from Earth.   The rocket stage is expected to be completely destroyed and to make a crater anywhere from 30 to 65 feet wide. There are dozens of objects like   this that people have lost in deep space, and an astronomer interviewed by CNN says no space agencies have done a thorough job of keeping up with   them. So he says this highlights the need for organizations like NASA to monitor deep space junk instead of relying on private individuals to do   that.   And another researcher says more thought needs to be put into keeping outer space clean. That could start with more reusable spacecraft and the space   flight company SpaceX is trying to get its reusable`s Starship rocket off the ground.   It can`t test it in orbit for the first time until it gets the green light from the U.S. government, and that can`t happen until the Federal Aviation   Administration completes its environmental review of the SpaceX facility in south Texas. Critics have said they`re concerned that wildlife in this area   could be threatened by SpaceX launches. The FAA report has been delayed a couple times, and it`s now due out in March 28th.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  RACHEL CRANE, CNN INNOVATION AND SPACE CORRESPONDENT: I`m here at Starbase, Texas where Elon Musk gave his first update on SpaceX`s Starship Program in   two years. Now I just want to point out that over my shoulder, you can see the Starship spacecraft, two of them actually, and they are sitting there   next to this super heavy booster.   Now the booster is what`s blast that spacecraft into space and that`s essentially SpaceX`s R&D facility where they`ve been iterating and working   on the Starship Program. Now over my other shoulder here, I want to bring you to the vehicle being fully stacked. Now it`s on the launch pad and it   stands nearly 400 feet tall.   The vehicle is completely reusable and when ignited this thing has more than twice the thrust of the Saturn V which is, of course, the rocket that   brought people to the moon during the Apollo era. So this is really a gargantuan vehicle. Musk spending a lot of time talking about why his   company SpaceX is working on this program. He believes that Starship will be able to bring people back to the moon and one day to Mars. Take a   listen.    ELON MUSK, CEO OF SPACEX: Starship is capable of doing that. It`s capable of -- of getting -- getting a million tons (inaudible) of Mars and creating   a self-sustaining city. This is the first point in the four and a half billion year history of Earth that it has been possible.   CRANE: Before they can launch from Starbase, Texas to orbit, they need FAA approval, and SpaceX and Musk hopes to have that in a matter of weeks and   they hope to make that first orbital test launch here from Starbase, Texas. Musk also laid out very ambitious goals of having three launches a day,   painted a picture of floating spaceports launching from Kennedy Space Center, really all over the world.   So, you know, there`s -- there`s -- there`s a very ambitious goal of ultimately one day achieving that long goal of creating a self-sustaining   city on Mars.   (END VIDEO CLIP)  AZUZ: 10 Second Trivia. The worst drought that the U.S. ever faced occurred in what decade? 1870s`, 1930s`, 1950s` or 1980s`. The U.S. government says   the most significant droughts in American history were during the Dust Bowl period of the 1930s`.  The Dust Bowl covered several states in the central U.S. It was actually a series of dust storms and droughts that came one after another. Extreme   heat was also a part of it, and it`s considered the benchmark for record drought in America. The U.S. government says droughts are normal but   they`ve happened naturally at different levels throughout history.   But a new study suggests that between the year 2000 and 2021, a drought in the American west could be that region`s worst in 1,200 years. The city of   Los Angeles, California is exploring new ways to recycle water. It`s not the only part of the world that`s bone dry.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: On the border of Spain and Portugal, a village, swallowed by the Zezere River in 1992 to make wave for a reservoir has now   emerged as a ghost. Visitors walking on the muddy ground cracked by drought, found partially clapped roofs, bricks and wooden debris that once   made up doors or beams. Over the years, onlookers were able to see the roofs peeking out of the water during drought season, but the extreme   drought this year has revealed the village in its entirety.   The Iberian Peninsula home to Portugal and Spain is experiencing one of the driest winters on record, which is draining out reservoirs, worrying   farmers and residents. Official records show Spain received only a quarter of precipitation it normally gets in January and water reserves are now at   less than half of their capacity.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE TRANSLATED: If in these months when it should be raining the most, it is not raining then the reserves don`t refill. Also their   capacity, their water quantity will continue to drop and that can be quite worrying for the future.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE: In neighboring Portugal, drone footage shows boats docked along dry banks, as river waters recede. Earlier this month,   Portugal ordered five of its hydropower dams to halt water use for electricity production to save enough for people`s daily use.  Antonio   Estivao (ph) is one of the farmers who is struggling to feed his livestock. Many are worried their crops for the season will be ruined.   (END VIDEO CLIP)  AZUZ: Just over 100 million people in America are estimated to have watched Sunday`s Super Bowl. It won`t break the viewership record set seven years   ago when 114 million people watched, but the game is still the most viewed annual event on TV and that`s why companies pay so much to advertise during   it. Likely a record $6.5 million this year for a 30 second commercial. But advertisers don`t always get the response they are hoping for.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Were you one of those people chasing a QR code around your TV screen during the Super Bowl? Even getting down on your   knees? Or maybe like this 95-year-old grandma, you were saying, what is that?   (INAUDIBLE) Or maybe you were at a Super Bowl Party with guests who rooted for the code more than for the Rams or the Bengals.   (CROSSTALK) It zipped around the screen for 60 seconds. A nod to the old bouncing DVD screensaver that became a meme, even ending up on "The   Office".   UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There`s this cube on the screen and it bounces around all day and sometimes it looks like it`s heading right into the corner of   the screen and at the last minute it hit`s a wall and bounces away.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, where`s Waldo?   (LAUGHTER)  MOOS: But this QR code commercial was for the crypto currency trading company Coinbase, and if your phone captured the code you were supposed to   get an offer for $15 in free Bitcoin for signing up. But a lot of folks got this instead, we`re having connection issues.   Others got, planned maintenance in progress, what Coinbase apparently didn`t plan for was this. We saw over 20 million plus hits on our landing   page in one minute. This volume led to us temporarily throttling our systems. For some --  (INAUDIBLE) Someone else complimented the big brain of the guy that came up with that ad, but a critic tweeted the company should have saved the $7   million ad cost and spent it on your servers. Actually 60 seconds probably cost at least $13 million, but who`s counting when fans are cheering a QR   code like it`s a QB scoring a touchdown.   (CROSSTALK) Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York.   (END VIDEO CLIP)  AZUZ: Some may have seen that and thought "QR" not getting me to click. I`ve scanned ads before, this one seems a little "cryptic", and even if   it`s code for a "bit of coin", I get plenty of screen time without taking "game time" to "screen" the "screen" and use a "screen" to "screen" and   then "scan the screen" in time, but again some could just hit pause.   I`m Carl Azuz for CNN 10. Today`s shoutout takes us to the Heights of Cleveland where we are shouting out Cleveland Heights High School. Thank   you for watching from Ohio and for your request on our YouTube channel.    END     

Date: 2022-02-23
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. My name is Carl Azuz. Thank you for taking 10 minutes to watch our show. A lot of fast-moving headlines concerning Ukraine top off today`s coverage. Here`s what`s happening: Russian troops have crossed the border into the   Eastern European country. This happened after Russian President Vladimir Putin gave a speech on Monday saying he would recognize two regions in Eastern Ukraine as being   independent from the Ukrainian government. Those regions are Donetsk and Luhansk these are places where separatists have been fighting for years to   be independent from the rest of Ukraine and Russia has supported them in this effort. President Putin called the region ancient Russian lands. After formally recognizing Donetsk and Luhansk as independent, Russia`s government said it would protect them from what it called Ukrainian   aggression and Russia sent troops that it describes as peacekeepers to these areas. The nation has said it has no plans to expand its military   operation in Ukraine, but the leaders of Britain and France described Russia`s actions as a blatant attack on freedom and democracy. And U.S. President Joe Biden called Russia`s moves the beginning of an invasion. He said Russia did not have the legal right to redraw borders in   Europe. America and its allies have announced new sanctions against Russia or penalties on that country`s economy designed to pressure it to withdraw   from Ukraine. And the U.S. says more sanctions will come if Russia goes any further. American officials plan to move additional military forces and equipment to allied nations around Ukraine to show they have American support, but   President Biden said U.S. service personnel would not be there to fight Russia he and Ukrainian president Vladimir Zelensky say they still hope a   diplomatic solution can be reached. Some analysts are concerned that Russia`s ambitions in Ukraine go beyond Donetsk and Luhansk. Russia took over a part of Ukraine before in 2014 when   it annexed another region called Crimea. Are its actions now another step toward taking control of more territory near western Russia? (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Ukraine is only about the size of Texas. So, why would Russia need so much force to go after this small area down   here? Why would they have filled the region with so many different troops? Military experts who have looked at this say they believe it`s because they want to have overwhelming power to support this peacekeeping mission in   here and maybe to carry it a lot further. One of the concerns that military strategists have for the West is that if they move into this area, Russia   will not say merely that we`re putting peacekeeping troops here but that they might say let`s carve out a land bridge to Crimea, which we want   anyway, and because of the danger, why don`t we have a zone a little bit further out here just to say we`re just keeping everyone apart so there   won`t be much fighting? And then maybe beyond that, the concern is what if they say we`re going to push all the way out here to the Dnieper River and say, all of this is for   Russia. And by the way, if the Ukraine army is in here resisting this, there`s a real fear that what Russia might try to do is sweep in behind them and   essentially isolate them and come up with a very, very diminished remainder of Ukraine and a very different looking map. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: A time period of 70 years is traditionally associated with what precious substance? Platinum, diamond, gold, or ruby? A 70th jubilee or anniversary is traditionally symbolized by platinum. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Which is why after years on the throne, Britain`s Queen Elizabeth II is marking her platinum jubilee this year. There are a lot of events and   celebrations set to take place in the months ahead, but for the queen to participate, she`ll have to get well first. Buckingham Palace announced on Sunday that she`d caught COVID, though she was fully vaccinated. The queen canceled all of her virtual events on   Tuesday, but her symptoms are said to be mild, like she has a cold. There have reportedly been a number of cases among the people who work around   Windsor Castle. Queen Elizabeth II has ruled longer than any other British monarch and she`s met with many leaders of Britain`s ally across the pond. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) QUEEN ELIZABETH II, UNITED KINGDOM:  Mr. President --   Mr. President --   Mr. President --   SUBTITLE:  Joe Biden is the 12th sitting American president to meet Queen Elizabeth II during her reign. The Queen will have met all U.S. presidents during her 69 year reign, except Lyndon B. Johnson. She also met President Truman in 1951, while still a princess. President Trump met the Queen twice and was the third U.S. president she hosted on a State Visit. In 2018, there was an awkward moment as President Trump walked with the Queen. President Obama also made a State Visit to the UK in 2011. He accidentally broke protocol when he spoke over the British national anthem. BARACK OBAMA, FORMER PRESIDENT:  To her majesty, the Queen, to the vitality of the special relationship between our peoples, and in the words of   Shakespeare, to this blessed plot this earth, this realm, this England, to the Queen. QUEEN ELIZABETH II:  That`s very kind. SUBTITLE:  President George W. Bush was the last to host the Queen at the White House in 2007. QUEEN ELIZABETH II:  Mr. President, thank you for your warm words. SUBTITLE:  He was the first U.S. president to pay a State Visit to the U.K. in 2003. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  A reigning king in the world of chess is Magnus Carlsen. The 31- year-old Norwegian chess grandmaster has won the world championship five times. In the current Airthings Masters online tournament, Carlsen had won   three games in a row before he matched up with Rameshbabu Praggnanandhaa, an Indian chess prodigy who`d just had three losses in a row. But the 16-year-old nicknamed Pragg kept his cool and somehow found a way to beat the Norwegian in 39 moves. Pragg was praised for his victory by   another Indian chess champion and a former pro cricket player who said the teen had made India proud. After the match, Pragg said he was just very happy and looking forward to going to bed. Carlsen said he was still feeling the effects of COVID after catching it in the days before the tournament. But he`s worked his way back up to second   place in the Airthings Masters standings behind a Russian grandmaster. The tournament is ongoing. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Scientists don`t know all the reasons why wolves howl. But according to National Geographic, the myth that wolves howl at a full moon likely   started way back in the day when ancient people who spent more time outside when there was a full moon to give light were probably just more aware of   wolves howling then. Again though, there`s a lot that`s unknown and a recent howl caught on camera was described as being as wild as they come. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  It`s what wolves are most famous for, but this had researchers howling with delight. In the words of the University of Minnesota Professor Joe Bump --   PROFESSOR JOSEPH BUMP, UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA/VOYAGEURS WOLF PROJECT:  Oh, it`s like winning the howling lottery. MOOS:  The Voyageur`s Wolf Project sets out hundreds of trail cameras in Voyageur`s National Park in northern Minnesota and talk about the right   place at the right time. Wolf number 94 not only howled once, he switched directions and howled twice. There`s a myth about wolves. CARTOON CHARACTER:  That`s what wolves do. We howl at the moon. MOOS:  Actually, experts say they howl to communicate with each other, to tell their own pack members where they are, or warn away members of other   packs. Fans love it when the Voyageurs Wolf Project posts images from its trail cams, of pups exiting the wolf den or mom carrying food home to the kids.   Apparently, all that howling takes a toll. The wolf flop down, watch those eerie eyes as the eyelids droop and the wolf naps. The call of the wild is   also the call of the sleepy. Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  With the camera right there, I think it was auditioning. There`s the great British barking show, my pack life, wolf versus food. The west wolf,   the wolf for years, the wolf whisperer, whose timberline is it anyway? Doctor owooh, and, of course, everyone`s favorite, the real housewolves of   Minnesota. I`m Carl Azuz. Today, we are howling for Ridgeline High School. It is great to see you watching from Liberty Lake, Washington, and thank you for your   request on our YouTube channel. END     

Date: 2022-02-24
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Welcome to the show on this Thursday, February 24th. I`m Carl Azuz, bringing your objective overview of current events. The U.S. Supreme Court is our first topic. President Joe Biden has reportedly met with three potential nominees to the high court and by next   Monday, he`s planning to announce his choice for the court`s next associate justice. On our January 28 show which you can find in our YouTube archives, we explored some of the likely front-runners for President Biden`s nomination.   He`s expected to follow through in a campaign promise he made to nominate the first Black woman to the Supreme Court. If she`s confirmed, it would be   a historic appointment though an ABC/Ipsos poll conducted last month found that most Americans wanted the president to consider all possible nominees. Whoever is nominated will still have to be confirmed and whoever gets confirmed will be replacing 83-year-old Associate Justice Stephen Breyer   who`s retiring. Justice Breyer began his term on the high court in after his nomination by then President Bill Clinton. There`s no limit to how long justices can serve. The U.S. Constitution says they can hold their office during, quote, good behavior. But Democrats have   pressured Justice Breyer to retire during this term. Why? The timing of these nominations matters a great deal to America`s political parties. Republicans generally want to seat conservative justices on the   Supreme Court. Democrats generally want to seat liberal justices. Six of the current Supreme Court members were appointed by Republican presidents,   three were appointed by Democratic presidents. Those include Justice Breyer. So, President Biden and his fellow Democrats who control the Senate by the slimmest of margins want to try to get Breyer`s replacement confirmed this   year because the midterm elections in November could change the political makeup of the Senate. If Republicans win back control of that chamber, it   could make it harder for President Biden to get a liberal justice confirmed. CNN 10 contributor Rachel Janfaza has more on this process. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RACHEL JANFAZA, CNN 10 CONTRIBUTOR:  Now that Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer has decided to retire, President Joe Biden will nominate his   successor. But just because Biden nominates a successor does not mean that his pick will automatically be confirmed to the highest bench in the land. The Constitution does not require that the candidate is a judge or even a lawyer. But that`s been the case in recent history. Once Biden announces   his pick, the confirmation process heads over to the Senate, where there will be hearings over the candidate in the Senate Judiciary Committee,   ahead of a Senate vote over whether or not to confirm the nominee. That vote requires a simple majority of 51 senators. If it`s a 50-50 split, Vice President Kamala Harris could break the tie. You might be wondering,   how long does this process take? Well, there`s no clear answer to that question. It really depends. Usually, it takes months, but when Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg died in 2020, former   President Donald Trump and Senate Republicans confirmed now Justice Amy Coney Barrett in less than a month. So time will tell. But with the 2022 midterm elections on the horizon, Senate Democrats will likely look to follow a quick timeline towards confirmation, while they   have the Senate majority. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: What accounts for more than 99 percent of the mass in our solar system? The planets, the sun, carbon or oxygen? Believed to be composed mainly of hydrogen and helium, the sun holds the vast majority of our solar system`s mass. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  And that`s our first stop in a trio of stories about science. We`re going to start with something far away and work our way in. The sun at a distance of about 93 million miles, give or take, recently had an eruption that just happened to have been caught on camera. Scientists   say this was a highly energetic explosion of light solar material and energy that occurred earlier this month and thankfully it was traveling in   a different direction than Earth. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SUBTITLE:  NASA and the European Space Agency`s Solar Orbiter spacecraft captured this unprecedented image of solar eruption. The eruption, which occurred on February 15, extended millions of miles away from Earth into space. These types of eruptions can disrupt technology reliant on satellites if directed towards Earth. That can affect GPS, airlines, rockets and astronauts in space. This imagery will allow space experts to gain a better understanding of the solar cycle. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  A little closer to home. When Mars and the Earth get near each other, they`re only about 34 million miles apart and NASA currently has a   rover that recently marked its first anniversary of when it landed on the Red Planet. Perseverance has been slowly moving around, taking photos, collecting Martian rocks, testing out its drone helicopter and oxygen generator   technology. The estimated cost of this mission is more than $2.7 billion and it`s one of six active missions that NASA currently has on and around   the Red Planet. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORTER:  Mars, its blood red color inspired the Romans to name it after their god of war. The ancient Egyptians called it the Red One. The Chinese,   Fire Star. Now with NASA aiming to send humans to the planet in the 2030s, the question many have is why? Mars has no known resources that would be valuable enough to send back to Earth. It`s bombarded by solar radiation and has dust storms that cover the   entire planet which raises the question why governments and private enterprise are spending billions of dollars on getting there. Perhaps the most intriguing reason is the search for extraterrestrial life. In 1976, NASA`s Viking I became the first spacecraft to successfully land on mars. On board was apparatus designed to detect life. Chemical soil   tests were initially promising but doubts were raised and it has since been discounted that life was discovered by Viking I. Yet, it still supercharged the debate on whether there was life beyond our planet and what it means for our place in the universe. Conditions on Mars   indicate life could have existed. And in 2018, NASA`s Curiosity rover found organic matter like methane in rocks. DR. JENNIFER EIGENBRODE, RESEARCH SCIENTIST, NASA:  Organic molecules could be the food for life or they could be the product of life or maybe they`re   from something altogether different, such as geology or meteorites that were deposited into the lake. REPORTER:  NASA`s Perseverance rover which touched down on the Red Planet February 2021 is actively testing for signs of life too. Perseverance rover   is just the latest in a series of missions to Mars that spans decades and each new step towards the Red Planet has brought the potential for a better   understanding of our own. There may not be a lot on Mars, but it`s the unknown and the adventure of getting there that might just merit the price tag. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Bringing things right back down to Earth, one of the most active volcanoes on our planet is at it again. We`re talking about Mount Aetna the   highest active volcano in Europe, it does this a lot. Aetna is located on the eastern part of the Italian island of Sicily. Shout out to Mr. McCarthy`s classes watching there. And the blast from Mount   Aetna earlier this week sent a volcanic ash cloud about seven and a half miles into the air. This is according to Italy`s Institute of Geophysics   and Volcanology. The lava fountain that shot from the mountain was visible in hues of red and crimson for several hours and the Catania Airport, which is located   about 20 miles away, had to shut down for a while because ash is bad news for airplane engines. It can melt inside them and cause catastrophic   damage. Aetna`s eruptions can and have caused damage to nearby property but Italian officials don`t consider the volcano a direct threat to the people who live   in the region. It has been in the past though. In 1669, Aetna erupted violently over a period of four months. It destroyed nearby villages and   buried the western part of Catania and according to encyclopedia Britannica, a trench that workers there dug during the eruption might have   been the first ever human attempts to redirect the flow of lava. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  One really sweet story rate a "10 out of 10" today. How many M&M`s can you stack one on top of the other? For 22-year-old Brendan Kelby of Queensland, Australia, the answer is six. That might not sound like a lot but it is a world record. No one on the   planet has proven to Guinness that they can stack more than six. These have to be just regular milk chocolate M&M`s and they`ve go to stay stacked for   at least 10 seconds. No, I don`t mean to be Ruth Baby, but some might Snicker, calling that record a dud. He milked for all it was Werther`s. But he`s an original   Starbursting with mounds of grand ideas that bring him good and plenty almond joy, as long as he keeps keep catching records and doesn`t get,   whatchamacallit, Butterfingers. I`m Carl Azuz. From the town of Keenesburg, Colorado, we`ve got the Rebels of Weld Central High School watching today. Thank you for your request on our YouTube   Channel. Please join us again on Friday. END     

Date: 2022-02-25
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Welcome to all of our viewers worldwide. My name is Carl Azuz. In the early morning hours of Thursday local time, with as many as 150,000 Russian troops surrounding the neighboring country of Ukraine, Russian   President Vladimir Putin made a televised address. He said for years, Russia had been promised that NATO, an alliance of North American and   European countries would not expand toward western Russia, but that that expansion had occurred anyway. He said this was making things more   dangerous for Russia and that it would be quite irresponsible if his country didn`t take action. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (through translator):  A decision has been made a special military operation. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Afterwards, CNN reporters in Ukraine said they were hearing explosions as Russia launched the beginning of a full-scale invasion of the   country next door. NATO leaders railed against Russia`s attack on an independent country. Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky said Russian   president Putin wanted to destroy Ukraine and everything it was building. And U.S. President Joe Biden said the responsibility for the war rests completely with the Russian leader. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  Putin is the aggressor. Putin chose this war and now, he and his country will bear the consequences.   Today, I`m authorizing additional strong sanctions. This is going to impose severe cost on the Russian economy both immediately and over time. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Several other nations joined the U.S. in announcing economic penalties on Russia but that country`s decision to attack Ukraine came   despite the international threat of sanctions, and it happened despite Russia`s repeated statements that it had no intention of invading Ukraine.   The Ukrainian government said yesterday that dozens of people had been killed in the conflict. The United Nations says 100,000 have fled their   homes in Ukraine and thousands have moved to other countries. All of this is having a wide-ranging impact on geopolitics, with Russian ambassadors being summoned and diplomats being kicked out of various   nations. There are some economic impacts being felt, with global stock markets dropping and we plan to have more on that in the days ahead. But right now, we`d like to give you a sense of what was happening on the ground around Ukraine after the Russian attack began. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  If we pan up, there`s another salvo being fired right now. So you can see in this area,   the Russians firing artillery rockets towards Ukraine. MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  I`m standing outside the perimeter of this Antonov air base and it has not been taken   back by the Ukrainian military. It is the Russian military. You can see them now moving back to a different position. There`s the Ukrainian   military who say they are now in control. This is about -- I would say about 20 miles from the center of the Ukrainian capital, and so it just shows us now for the first time just how   close Russian forces have got towards the center of the Ukrainian capital. Standby, we`re hearing some aircraft in the air, Jim. You can see over here, there`s a plume of black smoke, grey smoke, brown smoke that`s coming up from inside the compound of the -- of the air base.   I think there are jets in the sky, jets in the sky above us. Okay, Jim, we`re going to have to leave it here. I think the situation`s deteriorating. I`m going to hand it back to you. CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  People have been waiting here, some of them for hours and hours, and you can see, they have   their pets, they have their families and there`s just no sense of what happens next, what is their new reality, because the reality is here in   Kharkiv, Russian tanks are making their way here and nobody knows what their objective is. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Ukraine`s military said Russia`s objectives included blocking off the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv and carving out more land for Russia that   would connect the country with Crimea, which Russia annexed from Ukraine in 2014. Meantime, organizations around the world are planning shipments of   emergency supplies to those Ukrainians in need. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these European nations is the oldest? Portugal, Spain, Italy or Germany. In terms of becoming a unified independent nation, Portugal`s founding in 1143 makes it the oldest country on this list. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  In northeastern Portugal, conservationists are working to rewild a particular region. The idea is to set aside an area of land and bring back   the plants and animals that live there in the past. There is some controversy with this. Some experts say if certain species are no longer   found there naturally, they may not be suited to living there again. And people who live nearby could be threatened if an aggressive animal is reintroduced to the region. But those working to rewild part of Portugal   hope their efforts will help people and animals. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORTER:  Here in the valley of the Coa River in northeastern Portugal stretches acres of agricultural land that have fallen into disuse. For centuries, this area was used for farming and mining, but the economic downturn in recent decades prompted many thousands of people to leave. Today a small group of rewilders is claiming the land back. PEDRO PRATA, REWILDING PORTUGAL:  The aim is to allow nature to recover, wildlife to come back, but also for people and nature to benefit alike.   This means that the whole landscape is more connected and more abundant in wildlife. REPORTER:  Pedro Prata works for Rewilding Portugal, guarding the region from wildfires, animal poisoning and poachers and securing new areas of   protection. PRATA:  Me and my team we`re constantly present in this landscape. We live in the landscape. We`re all the time here. REPORTER:  The Coa Valley provides a migratory corridor for rare species. By rewilding these targeted areas, Prata hopes to encourage the return of   some of Portugal`s chief predators such as lynxes and wolves. But for the top of the food chain to flourish, it needs to be supported by the rest of the ecosystem. So the team is focusing first on the   reintroduction of road deer and wild horses. PRATA:  They are the ones who manage the growth of the vegetation. But also they spread seeds and they take the nutrients back into the -- into the   soil with their dung. And so they are the real engineers of the vegetation. REPORTER:  Progress will be slow. Predator numbers cannot increase until herbivores grow. PRATA:  Footprints, it`s better, yeah. REPORTER:  Once the system is up and running, it is hoped that lynx will follow in the footsteps of the wolves or indeed these badgers being tracked   by the team. But predators bring risk. Local human populations need reassurance. PRATA:  The biggest obstacles we`re facing nowadays actually is cultural. Our aim here is that people understand there is ways to co-exist with the   wolf. REPORTER:  Promoting wild herbivores prevents the likelihood of domestic animals being lost as prey. Prata and his team hope that by promoting species biodiversity in Portugal, they are ensuring the longevity for environment wildlife and community   alike. PRATA:  We live in a fantastic world, full of fantastic species and creatures that has the same right to be here and to exist into the future   as much as we do. I think my main message is just let nature be, and just let nature rewild. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  More than 12 years ago, a woman named Michelle got a dog named Zoe from an animal shelter. They lived together for six months but then Zoe   went missing and Michelle never found her. Flash forward more than a decade, an old dog turned up this year in a rural area of California looking sick. Animal services found she had a tracking   chip and they used it to find her original owner who hopes to get Zoe healthy and enjoy the rest of her life. We may never know where she spent the last four legs of her journey, not even the mutts and bolts, and it won`t do any good to hound her with   questions. You can`t keep pooching for answers. You got to stray away from some topics and let sleeping dogs lie when it comes to who let the dog out.   But now that she`s bark home safe, we have a nice tale to tell about a reunifi-canine. I`m Carl Azuz. Somerset Area High School is in Somerset, Pennsylvania, shout out to you. Thank you for subscribing and leaving a comment on our YouTube channel. We   hope all of you have a good weekend ahead. END     

Date: 2022-02-28
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Welcome to our show on this last day of February 2022. My name is Carl Azuz. We`re thankful you`re spending 10 minutes with   us this Monday.  It has been four days since Russian military forces invaded the neighboring country of Ukraine and U.S. officials say Russia`s progress has been slower   than the nation`s government thought it would be. Tough resistance from Ukrainian forces, heavier than expected losses on the Russian side and the   size of Ukraine, which is about as big as Texas, these have all been cited as challenges to Russian plans to quickly take control of the neighboring   country. He announced what he called a special military operation in Ukraine last week, Russian President Vladimir Putin said his country needed to act to   prevent Western influence from spreading near Russia`s western border. But his decision to invade Ukraine has been fiercely criticized by numerous   countries around the world. The two sides directly fighting in this war are Russian troops and the military of the Ukrainian government.  But Ukraine is getting weapons, equipment and various forms of support from the U.S. and several other nations, and some of those countries have also   sanctioned Russia. They put limit on international business with that country, in an effort to hurt its economy. Critics of that strategy say   sanctions alone are not enough to stop Russia, that they take too long and that the ones that have been announced weren`t put in place soon enough to   deter the Russian invasion. Inside Russia itself, there have been protests against that invasion, with hundreds and possibly thousands of people getting arrested for   participating. Russians do sympathize with Ukraine and place flowers outside the Ukrainian embassy in Moscow. On Sunday, there were concerns   that Russian President Putin was authorizing more destructive weapons, in an effort to inflict more damage on Ukraine, and end the conflict faster.   Russia has said it is not targeting civilian areas but some of them have been damaged. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  A man stands on his balcony, looking out at a new reality, just hours after a   missile slammed into his apartment building. It was 8:00 a.m. when the projectile hit, destroying parts of the 22nd and 23rd floors. According to   Ukrainian authorities, two people were killed.  Officials here say it was a Russian strike. Russia`s Ministry of Defense claimed it was a Ukrainian anti-aircraft missile that went awry. Whoever   was responsible, this is what happens when war comes to a major city. Homes and lives are destroyed.  At the city`s central train station, a frantic dash, as people try to escape to the west of the country.  Step back, the train conductor says, step back. She tells the crowd to leave their bags to make room for more people.  So, she`s just said that women and children can get on the train. You can see people pushing to get on. They`ve got pets, their babies, and they`re   trying to get on this train to get out of here.  Ukraine`s railway services say they are evacuating 5,000 people a day from Kyiv, and every single space is precious. We will stand, this woman pleads,   it`s full, the conductor tells her.  Inside the carriage, it`s standing room only. A woman waves good-bye to her family. Who knows when she will be able to return? Her daughter Tamara has   made the tough decision to stay behind.  For many people, it will be hard to understand how brave you are to stay here and not to try to leave and get somewhere safe.  TAMARA BAKOVA, KYIV RESIDENT:  It`s not brave. You should just understand, it`s my city, my hometown, my country, and I`m not the one who should   leave. The Russians are the ones who should leave, they would leave, I wouldn`t leave this city before they are.  WARD:  Do you think many people are like you and they`re ready to do everything they can to get Russia out?  BAKOVA:  I`m not thinking. I know.  WARD:  This is the sort of extraordinary resistance Russia is facing here.  One hundred miles northeast of Kyiv, a man tries to block a Russian tank. He kneels in front of it, determined to stop it in its tracks.  And for a brief moment, he does, before the column pushes on towards the capital.  (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson has officially been nominated to the U.S. Supreme Court. President Joe Biden made the announcement on Friday.   The 51-year-old nominee currently sits on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, and before that, Judge Jackson served as a federal district   court judge. She`s the first black woman ever to be nominated to the Supreme Court, but will she be confirmed as its newest associate justice?   That`s up to the U.S. Senate whose job is to give advice and consent on presidential nominees. The Senate is currently divided between 50 Democrats and 50 Republicans, and some Republicans have said they`re concerned about the support that   Judge Jackson has received from, quote, radical liberal groups. However three Republicans did join all Democrats in voting for Jackson`s   confirmation to her current job. That happened last June.  If the Senate were to vote straight down party lines on her Supreme Court nomination, with all Republicans opposing Jackson and all Democrats   supporting her, Vice President Kamala Harris, a Democrat, would cast the deciding vote to confirm Jackson.  Senate Democrats hope to hold the vote in mid-April. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT:  A historic selection shrouded in secrecy for the last several weeks. We are learning   that President Biden met with three candidates on Valentine`s Day, February 14th, for individual interviews at the White House that went under the   radar of everyone at the time. But he finally offered the position on Thursday evening to Judge Jackson and she was at the White House on Friday. JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  For too long, our government, our courts haven`t looked like America.  ZELENY (voice-over):  President Biden making history nominating the first black woman to serve on the Supreme Court. Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson, who   accepted the president`s offer during a call now beginning the confirmation process to become a justice on the nation`s highest court. JUDGE KETANJI BROWN JACKSON, SUPREME COURT JUSTICE NOMINEE:  I am truly humbled by the extraordinary honor of this nomination.  ZELENY:  If approved by the Senate, Jackson would succeed Justice Stephen Breyer, a mentor for whom she worked as a law clerk in 1999. JACKSON:  Justice Breyer, the members of the Senate will decide if I fill your seat, but please know that I could never fill your shoes.  ZELENY:  Her liberal ideology would not change the balance of the court. Yet her presence on the bench would mark a major milestone for the court   and the country. The White House ceremony comes two years to the day since Biden first made the pledge to nominate a black woman on the court, as he   sought to revive his candidacy before the South Carolina primary. BIDEN:  I`m looking forward to making sure there`s a black woman on the Supreme Court, to make sure I pushed very hard for that. ZELENY:  Jackson has been a federal judge for nearly a decade, elevated last year to the influential U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. BIDEN:  Incredibly, Judge Jackson has already been confirmed by the United States Senate three times. She strives to be fair, to get it right, to do   justice. That`s something all of us should remember. ZELENY:  Born in Washington and raised in Miami, she spelled out her dreams early, saying in her high school yearbook she aimed to go into law and   eventually have a judicial appointment. She did just that, graduating from Harvard both undergraduate and law school before serving as a federal   public defender, rare experience for a Supreme Court justice. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: What is this space rock that passes through Earth`s atmosphere and hits the ground? Meteor, meteoroid, meteorite, or metroid? If a meteoroid survives Earth`s atmosphere and makes it to the surface, it`s called a meteorite. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  In 2019, a meteorite struck a doghouse in Costa Rica. It just missed the dog. The animal was okay.  But the Christie`s auction company says it`s incredibly rare for things built by people to get hit by meteorites. So the dog house was put up for   auction and it fetched -- get it -- $44,000. The meteorite itself went for $21,000. We don`t know how much of this will go to the dog, but hopefully,   he`ll get a new house out of the deal.  One that rocks, if you know what I`m saying. His old rantantin (ph) roof was rusted, so he`ll probably want something to eave his anxiety, one with   better protection for his fascia, something that offers more of a life rafter, and he`ll probably opt out of a skylight. Then maybe he might not   mind being in the doghouse.  Roof puns, we nailed them.  I`m Carl Azuz. Want to say hello today to the American International School of Cairo. Thank you for watching from the Egyptian capital. And thanks to   all of you for taking time for CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-03-01
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The speaker -- WILLIAM J. CLINTON, FORMER PRESIDENT:  Mr. Vice President -- RONALD REAGAN, FORMER PRESIDENT:  Distinguished members -- GEORGE H.W. BUSH, FORMER PRESIDENT:  Of the United States Congress. GEORGE W. BUSH, FORMER PRESIDENT:  Members of the Supreme Court -- GERALD FORD, FORMER PRESIDENT:  Distinguished guests -- RICHARD NIXON, FORMER PRESIDENT:  My fellow Americans -- JOHN F. KENNEDY, FORMER PRESIDENT:  I can report to you --   HARRY TRUMAN, FORMER PRESIDENT:  The state of --   FORD:  -- the Union --   DONALD TRUMP:  -- is stronger than ever before. FORD:  Think for a minute how -- G. H.W. BUSH:  Far -- CLINTON:  We`ve -- CARTER:  Come -- FORD:  In 200 years. NIXON:  We find ourselves challenged by new problems. FORD:  In this country -- REAGAN:  At home -- BARACK OBAMA, FORMER PRESIDENT:  And Abroad. TRUMP:  Our values are renewed. DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER, FORMER PRESIDENT:  There demanded of us. G. H.W. BUSH:  Vigilance. CARTER:  Determination. KENNEDY:  And dedication. CLINTON: We must rise. NIXON:  To make. CARTER:  A nation. G. W. BUSH:  Better than -- CLINTON:  Any we have --   OBAMA:  Ever known. KENNEDY:  The road --   OBAMA:  Has been --   KENNEDY:  Long. TRUMAN:  The burden --   NIXON:  Heavy --   KENENDY:  And the pain --   G. H.W. BUSH:  This is --   G. W. BUSH:  -- not going to be --   CLINTON:  Easy. FORD:  We have --   KENNEDY:  Only begun. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Let us have. G. W. BUSH:  The will. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And the patience. NIXON:  To do. FORD:  This job. OBAMA:  Together TRUMAN:  We need many different kinds of strength. OBAMA:  Military -- REAGAN:  Economic -- G. H.W. BUSH:  Political -- TRUMAN:  And moral. REAGAN:  Nothing -- G. W. BUSH:  -- is impossible -- REAGAN:  No -- CLINTON:  Victory -- REAGAN:  -- is beyond our reach. No -- G. H.W. BUSH:  Glory -- REAGAN:  Will ever be too great. G. H.W. BUSH:  We are -- FORD:  Americans -- G. H.W. BUSH:  Part of -- OBAMA:  Something -- G. W. BUSH:  Larger -- G. H.W. BUSH:  Than ourselves. OBAMA:  God bless -- REAGAN:  You -- NIXON:  God -- G. W. BUSH:  Bless -- G. H.W. BUSH:  The United States -- FORD:  Of America. OBAMA:  Thank you. (END VIDEOTAPE) CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  And some of the themes you heard in that montage will likely be discussed tonight when U.S. President Joe Biden gives his   first official State of the Union Address. He gave this kind of speech last year in April appearing in front of a joint session of Congress. But it wasn`t technically called the State of   the Union because it was his first such address after his election. And traditionally, presidents aren`t yet considered authorities on the State of   the Union after just a couple months in office. The U.S. Constitution does not say when a president has to give this speech or even that a president should give a speech. Article 2 Section 3 only   says, quote: He shall from time to time give to the Congress information of the State of the Union and recommend to their consideration such measures   as he shall judge necessary and expedient. So the fact that a speech like this is given every year, the fact that it`s done in person, the fact that it`s televised and put online, the fact that   it`s followed up by a response from the opposing political party -- all of these are traditions associated with the State of the Union, but they`re   not required by the Constitution itself. Still the event is an extraordinary opportunity for the president and the party in opposition to lay out their visions for the country. President   Biden`s speech on March 1st will be the first one held in March since 1934. All the others have taken place in January or February. There`s a lot going on in the U.S. and abroad that`ll factor into tonight`s speeches. The Russian invasion of Ukraine, the president`s Supreme Court   nominee, the problem of inflation, the upcoming U.S. midterm elections issues related to COVID-19.   You can expect all of this and more when President Biden enters the House of Representatives at 9:00 p.m. Eastern and when Iowa Governor Kim Reynolds   gives the Republican Party`s response afterward. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: What is the currency of Russia? Euro, rial, ruble, or dinar? The ruble is the official currency of Russia and Belarus. (END VIDEDO CLIP) AZUZ:  The Russian ruble has crashed during the country`s invasion of neighboring Ukraine. By that we mean it lost 20 percent of its value on   Monday and the Russian stock market was closed on Monday and Tuesday. We`ve reported how the U.S. is one of numerous countries imposing sanctions on Russia. It`s an effort to hurt the nation`s economy and pressure it to   withdraw from Ukraine. Critics had said the sanctions were too little too late and President Biden acknowledged last week, quote, no one expected the   sanctions to prevent anything from happening, suggesting it`d take time after Russia`s invasion for sanctions to take effect. But economic analysts   say they`re starting to bite now. For years, Russia`s government`s been preparing for something like this, saving up international currencies and gold. But some of those assets are   in other countries, which aren`t giving Russia access to them. This is part of an interruption in the flow of money to Russia, hurting its ability to   do business.  And one example of how that happens is through SWIFT. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANNA STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  It`s like the pipe work of international banking. Founded in 1973, to replace the dated Telex transfer   system, SWIFT handles the majority of international money transfers and settlement of trades. It`s short for Society for Worldwide Interbank   Financial Telecommunications and now connects over 11,000 financial institutions. Removing Russia from SWIFT would make it extremely difficult for financial institutions to send money in or out of the country, delivering a sudden   shock to Russian companies and their foreign customers. Kicking Russia out of SWIFT was considered in 2014 in response to the annexation of Crimea. At the time, former Russian finance minister Alexei   Kudrin estimated that the expulsion could shrink the country`s economy by 5 percent. And it`s not just Russia that would be affected, there`s no globally accepted alternative to SWIFT so Russia`s expulsion could potentially hit   everyone who has international business dealings with the country. After Russia, Germany and the U.S. might have the most to lose. The Carnegie Moscow Center says German and American institutions are the most   frequent users of SWIFT to communicate with Russian banks. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Next today, the world`s plastic pollution problem is not a new subject for us. Waste is growing in landfills and oceans worldwide. What`s   also growing though are the number of proposed solutions. We couldn`t find exact costs for the disposable plates and bowls you`re about to see.   Similar products run about to cents per plate, while plastic foam plates cost around three cents apiece. But the newer technology comes at a lower cost for the environment. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  In the South Indian city of Hyderabad, employees at Bollant Industries are making disposable   products like colorful plates and sheets of cardboard. Their materials, fallen leaves from Areca, a palm species and recycled paper. SRIKANTH BOLLA, FOUNDER AND CEO, BOLLANT INDUSTRIES:  I call myself a waste person because I really love waste. I want to recycle all the waste that I   could in this world, and be a hero and be a symbol of the next generation. STOUT:  Srikanth Bolla is part of a small but growing field of Indian entrepreneurs hoping to prove that companies can help the environment and   turn a profit. His country is one of the world`s top polluters. India produces more than 15 million tons of plastic waste every year, according   to the U.N. This summer, India is slated to ban most single-use plastics which experts say will dramatically drive up demand for eco-friendly   products, as well as packaging in the country. Bollant Industries is also notable for the leader at its helm. Bolla was born blind to poor and illiterate parents in a village in Atta Pradesh. BOLLA:  Growing up in India as a child, I had to overcome lot of stigma, barriers and unacceptability in the society as I was blind from birth. My   childhood was a very lonely -- not that I was poor because I was made separated by the world. STOUT:  He founded his company in with an aim to employ as many people with disabilities as possible, like Kavala Krishnaya (ph) whose legs are not   fully formed due to polio. His job is to make disposable plates and bowls at Bollant`s manufacturing unit. BOLLA:  Our core vision is to employ as many people as possible who are at the margins of the society. We want to empower this big stream of people   who are in many millions. STOUT:  The company currently employs around people, a quarter of whom have disabilities, Bolla says. The MIT graduate says his products are currently sold to around 200 small and medium enterprises across India, such as restaurants. BOLLA:  Sight is just for the eye and not for the vision of the mind. So if you have vision, sight cannot do anything. If you have strong passion,   willpower and confidence in your mind and soul, I`m sure your physical disability can never stop you from achieving success. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Miles Harris is a news reporter in Ohio and his mom Sandy is super proud of him. As Miles was setting up for an on camera segment about a   crime story, guess who stopped by? (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) MILES HARRIS, NEWS REPORTER:  This is my mom, hold on. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  The person you hear laughing is his photographer D`Angelo Byrd (ph). He didn`t just record it. He put it on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and   now, Miles and his mom are both famous. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) HARRIS:  And that`s just like a prime example of one a mom being a mom, but just trying to get that front row seat to kind of see what -- what I`m   doing. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  I once heard the pun: if it`s not one thing, it`s your mother. And some do tend to offspring into action, embarrassing their kids whenever   they kin. In family matters, there are always growing pains. Miles might have been thinking give me a break. But it takes different strokes to keep   family ties regardless of whether there`s a full house. I`m Carl Azuz. Rancho High School in North Las Vegas, Nevada, gets today`s shout out. Thank you for your request on our YouTube channel, and thanks to all y`all   for watching CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-03-02
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  I`m Carl Azuz for CNN 10. Grateful to have you watching. We have clips for you from last night`s State of the Union Address and the response. Those are coming up in less than two minutes. But we want to bring you up to speed first on the ongoing war in Ukraine. Experts say Russia appears to be stepping up its attacks in the country,   increasingly launching air and artillery strikes in Ukrainian cities. Rockets hit near a TV tower and a Holocaust memorial in the Ukrainian   capital on Tuesday. Experts say assaults like this increase the danger that more civilians will be killed. The United Nations says over 100 have lost their lives so far in the conflict though Russia says its high precision strikes have targeted only   Ukrainian military and government facilities. Earlier this week, a huge Russian convoy, a three-mile-long column of tanks, infantry and fuel trucks, large caliber guns, it was headed toward   the Ukrainian capital. British officials said the convoy was less than 20 miles from the city on Tuesday, and making slow progress. They also said Russian forces had surrounded three other important Ukrainian cities, though the nation`s military was fighting to keep control   of them. In an interview on Tuesday with CNN and the "Reuters" news agency, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky urged U.S. President Joe Biden to   deliver a strong and useful message about the Russian invasion of Ukraine. The American leader`s address took place at 9:00 p.m. Eastern Tuesday night. That was 4:00 a.m. Wednesday in Ukraine, the time when shelling and   rocket strikes have been starting in the war. Highlighting achievements and laying out goals for the months ahead, these are the priorities of U.S. presidents during their annual State of the   Union speeches. In keeping with tradition last night, President Biden`s address was delivered in front of both chambers of Congress, a number of   their guests, members of the U.S. Supreme Court, presidential cabinet members. It was a fuller house than last year when masks and social   distancing were required because of the COVID pandemic. And progress in the fight against that virus was something the president was expected to talk   about. A $1.9 trillion COVID relief law was considered one of his early accomplishments last year, along with a $1 trillion infrastructure law that   was passed later on. But President Biden was unable to get enough support to pass a larger social spending bill he wanted or a package to overhaul election laws in   America, two of his other priorities. The troubled withdrawal of the U.S. military from Afghanistan was something the president was widely criticized   for and the dramatic rise of inflation over the past year, which hit its highest rate in decades before Russia invaded Ukraine. That`s also become a   major challenge for the Biden administration. One goal the president met was the fulfillment of a campaign promise to nominate the first Black woman to the U.S. Supreme Court. The Senate will   review and decide that outcome in the months ahead. And last night was a chance for him to shore up support for his vision for America`s future. Here are some highlights of what the president had to say. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIPS) JOSEPH R. BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  My fellow my fellow Americans. Last year, COVID-19 kept us apart. This year we`re finally   together again. Tonight -- (APPLAUSE) Tonight, we meet as Democrats, Republicans, Independents, but most importantly as Americans. Six days ago, Russia`s Vladimir Putin sought to shake the very foundations of the free world, thinking he could make it bend to his menacing ways. But   he badly miscalculated. The Russian economy is reeling and Putin alone is the one to blame. Together with our allies, we`re providing support to the Ukrainians in their fight for freedom -- military assistance, economic assistance,   humanitarian assistance. We`re giving more than a billion dollars of direct assistance Ukraine and will continue to aid Ukrainian people as they defend   their country and help ease their suffering. (APPLAUSE) But let me be clear our forces are not engaged and will not engage in the conflict with Russian forces in Ukraine. Our forces are not going to Europe   to fight Ukraine, but to defend our NATO allies in the event that Putin decides to keep moving west. We created jobs, lots of jobs. In fact, our economy created over 6.5 million new jobs just last year -- more jobs in one year than ever before   in the history of the United States of America. And with all the bright spots in our economy, record job growth higher wages, too many families are   struggling to keep up with their bills. Inflation is robbing them of gains they thought otherwise they would be able to feel. I get it. And tonight, I`m announcing that this year we will start fixing over 65,000 miles of highway and 1,500 bridges in disrepair. (APPLAUSE) When we use taxpayers` dollars to rebuild America, we`re going to do it by buying America. (APPLAUSE) Buy American products, support American jobs. For more than two years, COVID has impacted every decision in our lives and the life of this nation and I know you`re tired, frustrated. Because of the progress we`ve made, because of your resilience and the tools that we have been provided by this Congress, tonight, I can say we`re   moving forward safely back to more normal routines. And thanks to the progress we`ve made in the past year, COVID no longer need control our lives. I can`t promise a new variant won`t come, but I can   -- I can promise you, we`ll do everything within our power to be ready if it does. So, on this night, on our 245th year as a nation, I`ve come to report on the state of the nation, the state of the Union, and my report is this: The   state of the Union is strong because you, the American people, are strong. (APPLAUSE) (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  The opposing political party`s response is another tradition associated with the State of the Union Address. This practice started in   the 1960s. It`s a speech given by Democrats when there`s a Republican president and Republicans when there`s a Democratic president. So last night, Republican Governor Kim Reynolds of Iowa gave the rebuttal after President Biden`s speech concluded. Reynolds became Iowa`s first   female governor in 2018.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) GOV. KIM REYNOLDS (R-IA):  We`re now one year into him presidency and instead of moving America forward, it feels like President Biden and his   party have sent us back in time to the late `70s and early `80s when runaway inflation was hammering families, a violent crime wave was crashing   our cities, and the Soviet Army was trying to redraw the world map. Now all Americans must stand united in solidarity with the brave people of Ukraine as they courageously defend their country against Putin`s tyranny   as they fight for their freedom. But we shouldn`t ignore what happened in the run-up to Putin`s invasion. Waiving sanctions on Russian pipelines, while eliminating oil production   here at home. Focusing on political correctness rather than military readiness. Reacting to world events instead of driving them. Americans are tired of a political class trying to remake this country into a place where an elite few tell everyone else what they can and cannot say,   what they can and cannot believe. You`ve shown that the soul of America isn`t about who lives in the White House. It`s men and women like you in every corner of this nation, who are   willing to step up and take responsibility for your communities, for your neighbors, and ultimately for yourselves. By that most important measure, at least, the state of our Union is indeed strong. (END VIDEO CLIP) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: The prefix NGC, which stands for New General Catalog, is used to organize what? Library books, elements, feature films, or galaxies? Since the 1700s, the New General Catalog has organized space objects like galaxies. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  So, when NASA says that NGC 2444 and NGC 2445 are engaged in a cosmic tug of war, it means that scientists believe the two galaxies are   interacting, possibly passing through each other and they think the galaxy on the left is pulling gas from the one on the right forming this distorted   triangle of new stars. Researchers say studying colorized head-on collisions like this helps them better understand how stars and galaxies form in rings. If galaxies are going to risk playing games, cosmic tug-of-war kind of boggles the mind. It scrabbles the imagination. They need to get a clue   before they tic-tac-toetally go bonkers and wind up in some sorry, troubled, trivial pursuit of a Star Wars monopoly from which they can`t get   backgammon. Board game puns, you know they`re part cheesy. I`m Carl Azuz. Bath County High School is watching today from Owingsville, Kentucky. Thank you for your request on our YouTube channel. The only place we look for   your shout-out schools. END     

Date: 2022-03-03
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  It`s great to have you watching on this third day of March. My name is Carl Azuz. We`re starting with something a little different today. We`re explaining how we vet, how we make sure the videos you`re seeing from Ukraine are   real. Often in times of breaking news, especially if it takes place in a populated area, there`s a flood of information posted online. Some of it   like this footage of damage in a Ukrainian city is real. It`s been a week since Russian forces invaded the Eastern European country and U.S. officials estimate that Russia has lost roughly three to five   percent of its military equipment in the war while the Ukrainian military has lost roughly 10 percent, Because Russian forces are so much larger and more powerful, officials expect they`ll overwhelm Ukraine in the days to come. But conditions for   both sides are constantly changing and information is constantly evolving. The video you see here got more than 20 million views on TikTok with the   top comment claiming the soldier was recording an invasion. But that`s wrong. The video is from an Instagram post in 2015. This clip was recently shared on a Ukrainian government Twitter page as if it were real but the "Reuters" news agency said it`s actually from a video   game called digital combat simulator. One thing I always tell viewers to do especially if they`re seeing news on social media is to check their sources. Did it come from a reputable news   site or a news network you`ve heard of? If so, chances are it`s been verified. If not it might be real, it might be fake news. How exactly do networks like CNN go about verifying the videos we show? (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KATIE POLGLASE, CNN INVESTIGATIVE RESEARCHER:  Social media footage has played a key role in our coverage of Ukraine making us able to identify   military movements and also possible attacks. But it`s also really important that we understand the footage is real and accurate and current. And so, one of the ways we`ve been doing this is by geo-locating that footage, and here is an example of how our investigative team has been   doing that. It was an alarming scene. Russian helicopters flying suspiciously low over an area just a few kilometers outside of Ukraine`s capital Kyiv, with large   dark plumes of smoke rising. The man filming says about of them flew by. And at the time, this video first started circulating on social media February 24th, it was not yet confirmed the Russians were anywhere near   Kyiv. So our investigative team began looking to verify it. So, the most important thing is to establish that this footage is recent. We used reverse image search engines to check the video had not been circulating before February 24th. It had not. With that confirmed, we   needed to establish the location. Social media post mentioned Gostomel airport 25 kilometers outside of Kiev, so we started there. Using Google Earth and Yandex Maps, a Russian search   engine equivalent, we zoomed in on the airport and began looking for possible locations what we then wanted to do was to geolocate it. And to   geolocate it, we did what`s called a panorama. So we created various screen graphs from the footage that looked significant and we pulled up various different shots from the footage that   showed us key identifiable structures. The main most notable one was this yellow building here and there`s a small rooftop structure as well. You can   also tell that there are some White Houses and a grey structure here to the right. Using these screen grabs, we then went back to our Google Earth to find any situation any location near the airport that matched that description and   luckily, we found this. Here`s a yellow structure, and there`s multiple White Houses and there`s also a grey structure nearby as well. And because of that arrangement, because of the way they`re situated, that had to be the location near the airport where this footage was filmed. So we know the date and we also know the location of that footage. Now with that verified, we were able to put that footage to use. And so we sent this   footage to CNN`s Matthew Chance and shortly afterwards he traveled to where we geo located on a map and he was then up live for CNN creating an iconic   moment where he was at the airport with Russian soldiers interacting with him and identifying that they were already so close to the capital. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these Major League Baseball events took place in 1972? Pittsburgh won the World Series, Jackie Robinson retired, the first player strike was held, or the first division playoff was held? The first time a strike canceled Major League games occurred in 1972. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Now for the ninth time, work has stopped in the Major Leagues and the organization just announced that opening day which had been set for   March 31st will be postponed and the first two series of regular season games will be cancelled. This is because of a lockout that started last   December. Lockouts are when owners decide to shut down team facilities while strikes by contrast occur when players refuse to work. In both cases, the sticking point is usually a collective bargaining agreement -- a deal between the two sides for the show to go on. Players   salaries, free agency rules, postseason rules, they`re all part of a collective bargaining agreement. When the two sides couldn`t reach a new   deal last year, the lockout was announced and any trades or new contracts were put on hold. So now what? Well, despite ongoing negotiations between players and owners, they`re still said to be far apart on an agreement. So unless either side gives in   or both of them find a compromise on a path forward more of the 2022 season could be lost. Up next, it makes perfect sense that the Asian giant tortoise would be the giant-est tortoise in Asia. But poaching, illegal hunting of this animal   has made it critically endangered in Bangladesh. Meaning, there`s an extremely high risk it`ll go extinct in the wild. The reasons why and the action being taken to prevent this are the focus of our next report. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  The Asian giant tortoise was thought to be extinct in the country until 10 years ago when a few were   discovered in the wild with the help of this man. And now conservation biologist Shahriar Caesar Rahman is on a mission to bring them back. SHAHRIAR CAESAR RAHMAN, CO-FOUNDER AND CEO, CREATIVE CONSERVATION ALLIANCE:  We realized if we want to prevent extinction of the species from   Bangladesh, we must take drastic efforts. STOUT:  Rahman runs a conservation and breeding center for four critically endangered species of turtle and tortoise, in an effort to help restore   their populations in the wild. RAHMAN:  Unfortunately, most of the species are threatened with extinction. The major conservation challenges are hunting for food and pet trade and   the destruction of their freshwater ecosystem and forest habitat. STOUT:  On the front line is the Chittagong Hill tracks, a remote region on the Bangladeshi border with India and Myanmar considered a biodiversity   hotspot, but one that is threatened by poaching, logging and agricultural development. Rahman first visited in 2011 and working with the indigenous mural community, he and his team train former hunters as parabiologists or   citizen scientists that collect data and monitor species to help protect local wildlife. RAHMAN:  We`re empowering them to be the guardian of the ecosystem, that they have been protecting for hundreds of years. Those people become the   ears and eyes for conservation. And eventually when the species are released back in the wild, these are the individuals who will be monitoring   them every day. STOUT:  While there, Rahman learned that a few Asian giant tortoises still existed in the region and the idea for the breeding center was born. These   juveniles have been bred from specimens rescued from hunters by Rahman`s team of parabiologists like Passing Mro. PASSING MRO, PARABIOLOGIST (through translator):  In the past, our family hunted. But today, we don`t hunt the tortoises. We make people understand   not to hunt them as they are on the verge of extinction. I feel very happy to work on it. If we don`t, the tortoises will have vanished from the   world. RAHMAN:  The captive bred are critical endangered Asian giant tortoises which are bred here in our center for the first time in Bangladesh. We`ll   be releasing these individuals back in the wild end of this year. STOUT:  His hopes for the future of the species in Bangladesh -- slow and steady wins the race. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Thanks to a really creative idea on TikTok, New York City`s Empire State building is virtually talking trash about other skyscrapers. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  It is so bad I want to give you a zero. But that`s not possible, so I give you a one. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Why is this happening? Well, an Empire State marketing executive said they wanted to humanize the building, so they hired some folks to   attract social media followers by giving it a pair of critical eyes and a very big mouth. What builders may build; empire tries to take down. No sticks, no stones, just insulins abound. It sounds and resounds the heap of trouble, down from   ground level, may only get higher because others may rise and fall, but only one`s an empire does it aspire to inspire copycats as it lashes out   it`s all about a talking bout of towering trash. I`m Carl Azuz. We`ve got only nice things to say in our daily shout-out. And today`s goes out to Lowell High School in San Francisco, California. END     

Date: 2022-03-04
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. I`m Carl Azuz, welcoming viewers worldwide to CNN 10. Before Russia invaded the neighboring country of Ukraine, inflation in the United States was at its highest level in decades. This is when prices go   up and the dollar buys less. And now, a week after the war began the skyrocketing price of oil is expected to drive inflation even higher. It`s   not just about higher gasoline prices, though crude oil is the biggest factor in those they`ve increased seven cents per gallon over the past week   and are expected to get more expensive. This could increase the cost of travel as jet fuel prices rise. It could increase the cost of transporting the food and goods we buy. There are   countless products made from petroleum, things like ink, tires, tape, toothpaste, glasses, vitamins, soap, anything plastic, all of them could   get more expensive. One controversial part of the sanctions the international penalties placed on Russia`s economy is that they don`t include a ban on Russian oil, at   least not yet. Russia is one of the biggest suppliers of the world`s oil. It`s an important part of the Russian economy. Sanctions on that could   seriously damage that economy. But they could also increase inflation for the countries that buy that oil from Russia and those include the United   States. Still, there`s a bipartisan effort in the U.S. Congress to ban oil imports from Russia and if that happens some lawmakers have proposed suspending a   federal gasoline tax to help slow down the rise in prices. In explaining the reasons behind the Russian invasion, we`ve talked about how Russia`s government wants to limit western influence near its western   border. We`ve talked about how Russian President Vladimir Putin has been fiercely criticized and accused of trying to illegally redraw the borders   of Europe to make Russia`s position more powerful. But experts say there`s more to the invasion than borders and influence. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) TIM MARSHALL, JOURNALIST, AUTHOR AND BROADCASTER:  To better understand the tensions between NATO and Russia over Ukraine, it`s worth a glance at   history and a good look at a map. In the Cold War, Europe was split more or less in two. The NATO countries and the West, Warsaw Pact, and the Moscow`s   dominance in the east. But post-Cold War, country after country wanted to join NATO and it`s moved up to Russia`s borders. To understand why Russia feels nervous about that a topographical map is useful. There`s a mountain range running across Europe, the Carpathian Mountains. Now, from the Baltic Sea here to where the Carpathians start there, this is   flat ground. And through that flat ground have come Napoleon and the French, Hitler and the Germans and many others who`ve invaded Russia from   that direction, and that makes Russia very nervous. Therefore, it seeks to either plug that gap by occupying it or if not where the ground opens up into flat ground, it wants to at the very least   dominate it. In 2014, its reaction was to occupy and then annex Crimea, part of Ukraine, and its warm water port of Sebastopol which gives the Russian fleet access   out of the Black Sea into the Mediterranean and from there onto the great ocean lanes of the world. It also fermented civil war in the Donbass region in order to create a small mini buffer zone. To understand Russia`s strategy towards Ukraine, it`s not just about the military aspects and the political aspects. It`s important to understand   the place that Ukraine has in Russia`s hearts or in its psychology. Russian culture began in Kyiv and it`s where what eventually became Russia was founded I mean it moved eastwards across to Moscow. But they still know   in their collective imagination that the root of their culture is in the heart of Ukraine. And Putin wrote an essay pretty much about this, in which   he doesn`t recognize these lines on the map these borders because as far as he`s concerned, Ukraine is part of Mother Russia. And that is a psychology that goes quite deep in into the Russian collective memory. Large parts of the country are Russian speaking. There`s   the Slavic connection and there`s also the fact that many people are Russian orthodox in their religious belief. So, while, of course, great power politics and Russia`s position vis-a-vis Western Europe, NATO and the Americans and all the rest of it comes into   this, this is from the heart, and it actually does play a role in Russian thinking. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: What has the greatest influence on the tides of the oceans? The seasons, the sun, the moon, or gyres? The gravitational pull of the moon is responsible for Earth`s high and low tides. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  For the first time as far as scientists know, a chunk of man-made junk has gone thunk unintentionally on the surface of the moon. The rubble   that caused trouble is believed to have been spinning around in space for more than seven years. Experts estimated the trash would smash into the   moon at 5,500 miles per hour. Its bash creating a flash, the bust causing dust and debris to blow out for hundreds of kilometers. But unfortunately,   people couldn`t see it. The impact was expected to take place on the far side of the moon which is hidden from telescopes. Astronomers have said space agencies like NASA need   to do more to monitor pieces of deep space junk like this. Who identified it in the first place? (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) BILL GRAY, INDEPENDENT ORBITAL DYNAMICS RESEARCHER:  When I look closer, I saw that it was going to hit the moon. SUBTITLE:  Bill Gray was the first person to publicize that an object was on a path to crash into the moon on March 4, 2022. GRAY:  This particular piece of junk happened to have a fairly close fly-by the moon. Afterwards when it was observed, I updated this orbit and ran   into a problem the software basically objected to it. And when I looked closer, I saw that it was because on March 4th, that a little bit afternoon   Greenwich Time, it was going to hit the moon. SUBTITLE:  The object was initially wrongly identified as a SpaceX booster. Gray now believes the object is a booster from a 2014 Chinese lunar   mission. A spokesman for China`s Foreign Ministry left it unclear when asked if China claimed responsibility for the object. GRAY:  There are about maybe a dozen or two dozen pieces of junk that I keep track of that are in unusually high orbits for space junk. As far as I   know I am the only person who`s keeping an eye on these objects, but I`ve sort of been hoping for one to hit the moon, because it`s just the moon,   you get a crater and you learn something from it. If it hits the Earth, you don`t learn anything and if it goes into orbit around the sun, it`s just   wrong. This is the preferred outcome, and yeah, I was -- I was quite happy when I figured out that that was going to happen. Major thing that we`ll wind up getting is a very nice fresh impact crater. It will turn up a little bit of lunar soil from underneath, probably a   meter or two down, and a part of the moon that we currently don`t know very much about. SUBTITLE:  The expected point of impact is on the far side of the Moon, making it unobservable from Earth. GRAY:  If you`re going to hit the moon it should be with something that is biologically fairly sterile. But usually there`s an effort not to   contaminate the moon. There are different arguments as to where that junk should go, but having a plan for it rather than just leaving it floating   around at random would probably be a good idea. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  A lot of folks want to get giant at the gym. But if you`re talking about a high bar giant in gymnastics, you`re talking about this, and you`re   looking at the man who holds the Guinness World Record for the most done at one time. A high bar giant is a full 360 with a slight pause at the top and Roman Sahradyan of Armenia has been verified as the reigning champ. Over a time   of 28 minutes, he completed 1,001 rotations. To say that sets a new high bar is kind of low-hanging fruit but if anyone ever told that dude to get a grip, hold on, hold tight, hold the line, hang   out, reach for the sky, put your hands up go for a spin, swing back around, circle back, or come back later -- well, they might have been thrown for a   loop when they saw him flip out. Fridays are awesome. Today`s shout-out takes us to Shawe Memorial High School. I want to give a big hello to our viewers watching from Madison, Indiana. I`m Carl Azuz for CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-03-07
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hi. I`m Carl Azuz. It`s a brand new week and we`re happy you`re spending a few minutes with us today.  First up, attempts are being made to evacuate civilians from war-torn cities in Ukraine. Children are among the people hiding in basements while   fighting destroys the buildings above.  Russian and Ukrainian forces agreed to a ceasefire on Saturday to allow people to leave the cities of Mariupol and Volnovakha using a safe   evacuation route. But the plan was shut down when fighting continued with each side accusing the other of breaking the ceasefire. They both said   they`d try again on Sunday though.  The mayor of the coastal city of Mariupol on the Sea of Azov says there`s no power heat water or Internet. Ukrainian government officials have been   asking the countries that support them to establish a no-fly zone. The goal of that would be to keep Russian planes and helicopters from conducting   airstrikes in Ukraine.  If that won`t happen, Ukraine`s president has asked for fighter jets and the United States is reportedly in talks with Poland to possibly provide   those kinds of planes to Ukraine.  But while America and several other countries have given Ukraine weapons and ammunition for the war, officials say they`re hesitant on requests for   a no-fly zone and fighter jets because Russian President Vladimir Putin has said that would make them participants in the conflict, and the U.S. and   European countries have said they don`t want to directly get involved against the Russian military. They don`t want the conflict to escalate   beyond Ukraine. The Russian leader has already called the Western sanctions the financial penalties on Russia the equivalent of a war declaration but while they   continue to expand and hurt Russia economically they have not brought an end to its invasion of Ukraine. Shipments of international aid, surgical   kits trauma kits, medicines, first aid packages, they`ve begun to arrive in the Ukrainian capital. Government officials there say thousands of people   have been going for days without electricity, food, running water or basic day-to-day supplies. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: We are here on the northern western outskirts of Kyiv, at the entrance to a place called   Irpin. And basically what you`re seeing here is people who have been under heavy bombardment now for seven straight days finally managing to flee from   this area of Irpin. And if we pan over here, my cameraman Scott McWinney (ph) can show you the bridge here that connects Irpin to central Kyiv has been destroyed. That   was destroyed by Ukrainian forces to prevent Russian forces from moving on into central Kyiv. But what you`re seeing now is that people have to navigate and cross on foot this destroyed bridge in order to get out safely.  Now, since we`ve been here we have heard non-stop heavy artillery coming from that direction, also that direction. You can imagine how petrified   these people are.  These people have been under bombardment for seven straight days and are only just leaving their homes and they`re leaving them reluctantly and   they`re leaving them with the knowledge that they might not be able to go back to them.  And you can see many of these people are elderly.  (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE) You see them -- people are so exhausted. They can barely walk. They`re having to climb this sort of twisted metal. Many of them as you can see are   elderly. They`re visibly distressed. It`s just an awful, awful scene and these people are the lucky ones. (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE) I`m just going to help her carry this bag a second. Excuse me, while we try to --  (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE) So people are obviously incredibly affected by the situation. They`re frightened. They`re exhausted. They`re on edge. They`ve got their pets.   They`ve grabbed whatever they can. A lot of these people have no idea where they`re going to go once they cross this bridge. They know that they`re in relative safety once they do   it. But they don`t have any idea where they`re going to go. They don`t have any idea where they`re going to sleep tonight. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ: On Saturday, the National Weather Service in Des Moines, Iowa, said a large and extremely dangerous storm was moving toward a city five miles   east of the capital. It produced a tornado that tore through several counties killing at least seven people and seriously damaging more than 24   homes.  Iowa`s governor proclaimed Madison County a disaster area. What that does is speed up help from Iowa`s state government to the people who need it.  Yesterday, police said it was dangerous to travel because power lines were down and debris and standing water were blocking roads. So they encouraged   Iowans in the affected areas to stay home.  Their state is located in tornado alley a region of the U.S. that sees the most twisters. On average, two tornadoes strike Iowa in the month of March. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST: This is a two dimensional look at a storm on radar, but meteorologists see a tornado. But what is it exactly   that meteorologists see?  Well, let`s take a look. The yellow and green colors you see here are going to be your very heavy rain in the storm. The red color indicates your hail   core.  And then all the way down there, the purple circle, that`s where your tornado is going to be. Meteorologists often refer to it as the hook echo,   because of the hook shape that it ends up taking.  But these aren`t the only features we look for. We also have to take a look at the winds inside the storm. Imagine this flagpole was inside of our   storm and the flags going all the way up to the very top of the cloud. The thing is the wind changes direction as you go up. So this naturally creates   that rotation necessary for funnel clouds and also even tornadoes. So, now, let`s take a look at the base of that storm. What you have is you have very warm inflow warm air coming into the storm and rising because   that`s what warm air does it goes up. But you also have cold air coming down from the tops of the clouds and sinking all the way down towards the   base.  Now, together these help to create wind shear down near the perimeter and that is what helps create some of the more violent tornadoes.  Now, what if your tornado has been on the ground for at least a little bit? Then you start to get this, the debris cloud which is essentially a   collection of all of the stuff the tornado has been able to pick up -- everything from dust to trees to even homes. (END VIDEOTAPE)  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over): Ten-second trivia: Which of the Great Lakes has seen the most shipwrecks? Lake Superior, Lake Michigan, Lake Huron or Lake Erie? More than 2,000 shipwrecks rest in Lake Erie, which has one of the highest concentrations in the world. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ: But it was in Lake Superior, the deepest Great Lake, that a 130-year- old shipwreck was recently discovered off the coast of Michigan`s Upper Peninsula. No one knows why the coal-carrying barge was named the Atlanta,   the capital of Georgia, which shares that name is hundreds of miles away.  But historians do know the ship was being towed during a storm when the tow line snapped and so did the Atlanta`s masts, which left it impossible to   sail. Only two people out of its seven-member crews survived.  Experts say the wreck is so well-preserved because the waters of Lake Superior are so cold. The Great Lakes Shipwreck Historical Society explored   it using a remotely controlled submersible. It plans to leave the Atlanta undisturbed as opposed to trying to salvage it from a depth of 650 feet. (MUSIC) AZUZ: For 10 out of 10, what is two stories tall, weighs more than a ton, and is covered by more than 2,000 foam quills?  Percy the porcupine, of course. Now, you might be asking but, Carl, what?  This is a puppet, a gigantic inflatable one. It was ordered by the San Diego Children`s Zoo for a new exhibit. According to "The Los Angeles   Times", it took five people to build Percy, it takes five people to operate Percy, and he`s only a porcupine head. Because when the project came to a head, it was already ahead of the size of the others. It was head and shoulders above them, and fans who were   porcupining away for their nocturne to make a rodent in their schedule by visiting such an arbor real treat thought the whole idea was quiller. From the island of Okinawa, Japan, we heard from our friends at Kadena High School on our YouTube channel. Shout out to you. I`m Carl Azuz. END   

Date: 2022-03-08
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. I`m Carl Azuz. It`s always good to have you watching our show. In recent days, as we`ve shown you Ukrainians hiding in shelters or leaving their homes during the Russian military invasion of their country, you   might have noticed they included the elderly as well as women and children. But where are the young men? When Russia launched what it called a, quote, special military operation in Ukraine on February 24th, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy declared   martial law when a country`s armed forces take control during a national emergency. Part of that made it illegal for men between the ages of 18 and   60 to leave Ukraine. Some of them have been drafted into the Ukrainian military, others may be in the days ahead. And the nation`s government says more than 66,000 Ukrainian men have returned there from other countries to join the fight against Russian   troops. It also says more than 20,000 foreign volunteers from 52 nations have said they`d join the fight on Ukraine`s behalf. Meantime, a U.S. defense official says Russia is trying to recruit foreign fighters as well, including people from Syria to supplement Russian forces   in Ukraine. We don`t have an estimate on how many foreign troops might be involved on the Russian side, but U.S. officials say that country`s fight   in Ukraine has been harder than the Russian government expected. Russia said at the beginning of its invasion that it would only target Ukrainian military sites but several civilian sites from apartment   buildings to college buildings to a Ukrainian orthodox church have been damaged or destroyed. As far as casualties go, we don`t know how many   thousands of people have been killed in the conflict. The Russian and Ukrainian governments give vastly different counts when it comes to their   soldiers deaths. But the United Nations says it believes more than 400 civilians have lost their lives. The U.N. also says more than 1.7 million Ukrainians have left   their homes, many are crossing their country`s border into Moldova, a much smaller nation, south of Ukraine. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE) IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Mykolaiv. There`s a family that has just crossed the border from Ukraine into Moldova. They came from the town of Mykolaiv, scene of some pretty intense   fighting. And they are some of the hundreds of people that we`ve seen crossing this border in just the last couple of hours, in the cold, in the   snow flurries, people with very little children in strollers and now suddenly, refugees. The amount of humanity that has crossed the borders   from Ukraine into Moldova in just the last week and a half, more than 230,000 people. I spoke with Moldova`s prime minister who predicts this situation will get much, much worse. NATALIA GAVRILITA, MOLDOVAN PRIME MINISTER:  So every eighth child in Moldova is now a refugee. So about three-fourths of the refugees are   actually staying with families. A lot of Ukrainians have friends or relatives in Moldova, but also regular people have just taken in Ukrainian   families into -- and invited them into their homes. WATSON:  Complete strangers. GAVRILITA:  Yes, absolutely. WATSON:  Do you think the refugee exodus will get worse in the days and weeks ahead? GAVRILITA:  I`m afraid so. WATSON:  The Moldovan government is providing free transports for people from the border. They have opened their doors to these Ukrainian refugees,   but Moldova is a small country and clearly needs help with this. I spoke with one grandmother who was holding her four-month-old granddaughter who said her home had been destroyed by Russian troops in the   town of Mykolaiv and she blamed Russia for this uprooting of humanity for the uncertainty and fear and trauma that her family has been put through.   She used the Russian government`s words against them. She said Moscow says it has come to liberate us, look at how we are being liberated from our   homeland. Ivan Watson, CNN, on the Ukraine-Moldova border. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: What is the most common tiger subspecies in the wild? Bengal, Siberian, Sumatran or Indochinese? The most common subspecies of tiger is the Bengal, though it`s still considered endangered. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  While conservationists believe a few thousand Bengal tigers are left in the wild and that their numbers may be increasing, researchers think the   number of wild Indochinese tigers is somewhere in the hundreds. That`s why this footage captured in western Thailand two years ago was such a big   deal. Remote cameras filmed three young Indochinese tigers and gave hope they may be returning to the forests. Conservationists are trying to help them   along. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  This lush tropical forest in northwest Thailand is hiding a rare endangered species. It`s one   of the last bastions for the Indochinese tiger, poached to the brink of extinction for their fur and use in traditional medicine. This iconic species has all but disappeared from much of its range. Almost everywhere in fact, except for here. Huai Kha Khaeng Wildlife Sanctuary is part of Thailand`s Western forest complex with almost square miles of protected jungle, it forms the largest   intact forest block in mainland Southeast Asia, fertile ground for tigers and Pornkamol Jornburom is on their tail. PORNKAMOL JORNBUROM, CONSERVATION PROGRAM MANAGER, WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY:  This is the tiger track. So I`m doing the measurement to make   sure this is real tiger tracks. I would say this is a healthy one adult tiger. STOUT:  Jornburom works for the Wildlife Conservation Society. The non- profit is partnered with the Thai Department of National Parks Wildlife and Plant Conservation and a project training park rangers to reduce poaching   here since 2005. Together, they developed the smart patrol system, a combination of boots on the ground camera traps and data collection to monitor signs of wildlife   and potential threats. Armed and trained in self-defense these park rangers are prepared for encounters with poachers and unlike other protected areas in Thailand there   have been no incidents of poaching here since 2013, according to the wildlife conservation society. By using 250 camera traps across the forest, they found that tiger numbers have more than doubled here over the past 15 years to over 60. And this watering hole deep in the forest has become a day spa for tigers, somewhere to rest relax and rendezvous, until they eventually make room for   some other forest residents like the Asiatic black bear, Asian elephant and wild boar. JORNBUROM:  Tiger is the top predator of the food chain in ecosystem. So if we are successful in conserving tiger, that means we can protect many other   endangered species. STOUT:  And as Jornburom says, big cats need big food. Large mammals like gaur, banteng and Sambar deer are all on the menu here. JORNBUROM:  For one adult tiger, it needs at least 50 (ph) Sambar deer a year to feed them. STOUT:  2022 is the lunar year of the tiger, marking a deadline set in by 13 countries to double their wild tiger populations. So far, evidence   suggests global tiger numbers are on the rise but their range has continued to decline. Jornburom is hopeful for Thailand`s tiger. JORNBUROM:  For example, Huai Kha Khaeng right now, we are the biggest home of Indochinese tiger population. STOUT:  So while tigers worldwide face an uncertain future, these tigers can relax at least for now. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Whether or not you`re a dog owner, Sniffspot may not sound like something you want in your backyard. But that`s the name of a website for   private dog parks people can rent and some dog owners or lovers are offering their backyards as a sort of Vrbo or Airbnb for canines. The owner of the Scooby Dooby shack in Las Vegas for example says she`s made hundreds of dollars renting out her backyard and pool to dogs. But would this rental idea work for other pets? Doing this for fish would go belly up. Ferrets would try to weasel their way out. Rabbits could   escape with a hop skip and a jump. Guinea pigs would have to be wheeling guinea pigs. Snakes would try to squeeze you out of every last penny. Hamsters give good shavings but not   much savings, and cats tend the litter. So probably not. But, hey, it still makes sense for us to visit Renton, Washington, for today`s shout-out. I want to recognize our viewers at Lindbergh High School   watching there. I`m Carl Azuz for CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-03-09
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Oil, wheat and rain all factor in our show this Wednesday. I`m Carl Azuz. We`re thankful to have you watching and we hope   you`re doing well. Our first subject today, a U.S. ban on Russian energy. Until now, the international sanctions, the penalties on Russia`s economy for its invasion   of Ukraine have not included a ban on buying Russian coal, natural gas or oil. Russia is one of the world`s biggest producers of these commodities,   selling them is a crucial component of the nation`s economy and America has continued to buy Russian oil after the country attacked Ukraine on February   24th. Critics have said by doing that, the U.S. government has helped Russia pay for the war and American Republicans and Democrats have pressured the Biden   administration to stop importing Russian energy commodities. The decision announced by President Joe Biden yesterday does not apply to Europe.   Nations there are more reliant on Russian energy than America is and they`re already struggling with record high prices for gas and heat. But the U.S. did take another step on its own yesterday to increase the strain on the Russian economy. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  Today, I`m announcing the United States is targeting the main artery of Russia`s economy. We`re   banning all imports of Russian oil and gas and energy. That means Russian oil will no longer be acceptable at U.S. ports and the American people will   deal another powerful blow to Putin`s war machine. This is a step that we`re taking to inflict further pain on Putin, but there will be cost as well here in the United States. Defending freedom is   going to cost. It`s going to cost us as well. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  So what did the president mean by that? Last year, the U.S. imported about percent of its energy from Russia, 3 was in crude oil alone. It`s not   a huge amount. But because the price of crude oil is the single biggest factor in the cost of gasoline, further increases in U.S. gas prices are   expected. As we reported last fall, rising gas prices were already a problem in America before Russia invaded Ukraine. As demand for goods increased during   the COVID pandemic, so did the demand for energy to transport those goods. The temporary closure of some coal mines in China impacted global energy   prices. The recent decision by some oil producing countries to increase their output gradually instead of rapidly contributed to oil price rises,   and Republicans have said the Biden administration`s limits on oil and gas production in the United States have made oil more expensive there. The White House says it`s authorized the release of tens of millions of barrels of oil from the strategic petroleum reserve. It`s hopeful that`ll   help ease prices and it`s recently held talks with Venezuela, an ally of Russia and rival of the United States, to possibly resume U.S. oil   purchases from the South American country. Meantime, gasoline prices have hit a record high in the U.S. Tuesday`s national average was $4.17 per gallon, but the state of California has the   nation`s highest prices. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CAMILA BERNAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  At the gas station where I am right now, a regular gallon of gas is $6.95. For that premium, we`re talking $7.55.   And as this crisis in Ukraine continues, it could continue to increase. Ever since the invasion of Russia in Ukraine, we`ve seen those prices go up   by 37 cents. Just in the last two days, we`ve seen a 19 cent increase. And so, that`s what people are worried about because this is obviously affecting everyday Americans. Take for example, rideshare drivers. They are   greatly impacted. I spoke to one of them Benjamin Valdez who works at least three days a week and he says this increase in prices for him makes a huge   difference. Take a listen. BENJAMIN VALDEZ, RIDESHARE DRIVERS:  I was putting in probably around $60 for a full tank. And now, it`s climbed up to about $90. So it`s getting up   there. If I drive 200 miles, I`m spending $50 in gas. And if I make $150 to $200 in that night, I`m cutting at least one third of my expense in gas   alone. BERNAL:  And it`s not just him I talked to many rideshare drivers who told me other drivers that they know have been quitting over the last couple of   months and they say this is the final straw. But it`s not just the rideshare drivers, it`s the taxi drivers, the truckers, and everyday Americans, anyone who gets in a car who has a   commute will notice the difference and unfortunately the situation could get worse. Camila Bernal, CNN, Los Angeles. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  The last time gasoline hit a record price was in 2008. It was six cents cheaper per gallon then, but it`s not the only thing many Americans   use daily that`s been impacted by the war in Ukraine. Russia is one of the biggest global exporters of fertilizer. If it stops shipping that, as it`s   threatened to do, expenses for the world`s farmers could go up and that could lead to higher food prices which hit record highs around the world in   February. The war is also having an impact on wheat. More than a quarter of the world`s exports of that come from Russia and Ukraine. And this week, wheat   also set a new price record. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORTER:  Every week, bakers at Fresh Baguette Bakeries in the D.C. metro area makes 10,000 loaves of bread and 37,000 croissants. FLORENT DE FELCOURT, CEO, FRESH BAGUETTE:  They`re all very fresh. REPORTER:  That`s a lot of baking and a lot of flour. DE FELCOURT:  All these ingredients are using flour and that`s why it`s a concern this price increase. REPORTER:  Flour is made from wheat and it`s up more than 7 percent this week and up 68 percent this year alone, prices not seen globally since   2008. DE FELCOURT:  We are expecting a major increase in the weeks or months to come, especially if the war is going to last for long. REPORTER:  Russia and Ukraine supply percent of the world`s wheat exports. And now, they`re at war. Countries are reluctant to trade with Russia and   Ukraine`s ports are closed, stalling exports. That means buyers are looking to a smaller group of wheat-producing nations, sending prices here at home   up. KATIE DENIS, VP OF COMMUNICATIONS, CONSUMER BRAND ASSOCIATION:  There`s going to be additional price pressure that we`re already seeing in futures   markets that`s going to come to bear. At some point, companies are going to have to make decisions about what that means for their pricing for   consumers. REPORTER:  Fresh Baguette owner Florent de Felcourt says he hasn`t raised prices yet. The cost of bread and cereal for U.S. consumers up 6.8 percent   last year because of inflation, making it harder to do business. DE FELCOURT:  Last year, it was pretty tough. So for the time being, we have not increased our prices since the beginning of the war. When I see   the future price on on the wheats, it`s pretty sure that it will go up. As market demands for wheat begin to shift, the U.S. could ramp up exports to other countries. Agricultural analysts agree it`s becoming more unlikely   many Ukrainian farmers will be able to plant wheat this year. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these countries has the smallest population? Australia, Venezuela, Poland or Morocco? Despite its large size, Australia has the smallest population on this list. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Its total population is about 26 million people, almost one-fifth of them live in the city of Sydney and it has been drenched over the past week   by tremendous amounts of rainfall. In eastern Australia, a year`s worth of rain has fallen in a matter of days. At least 20 people across the region   have been killed. Roads and property have been covered in water. Cars have been swept away. And forecasters say more rain is in the forecast for Sydney, which is the capital of the Australian state of New South Wales. As of Tuesday, at least   60,000 people there were under an evacuation order or warning. A dam in the area had started overflowing and flooding low-lying areas. Meantime, about 450 miles north, the cleanup continues in the city of Brisbane, which was hit by heavy storms more than a week ago. Authorities   say the recovery process there will take months and have a significant impact on the local economy. But with more rain likely for the area around Sydney, people were advised to be on the lookout for dangerous floods. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  A Toyota super sports car retails for around $60,000. Its 1960s equivalent, which looked a lot like this, just sold at auction for $2.5   million. But this is one of only 351 cars like it ever made and it`s no ordinary Toyota 2000 GT. It`s a 1967 Toyota Shelby 2000 GT, which means it   got the racing treatment from U.S. racing legend Carroll Shelby. That made this the most valuable Japanese car ever sold at auction. Of course, auctioneers want to drive the price as high as they Camry, but some folks might 86 idea and Corolla away before paying that when they   could take home about 41 Supras for that price. Is this the Forerunner or Prius cursor to more records? Hey, when it comes to auctions, it just   depends on who`s in the va-room. I`m Carl Azuz. Some of you are watching from Cheyenne, Wyoming. Shout-out to the students of Central High School there. They know the only place we   look for shout-out schools is on our YouTube channel. END     

Date: 2022-03-10
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  From Eastern Europe to Eastern Asia, and from the Pacific Ocean to Paris, France, we`re going globetrotting in today`s   show. I`m Carl Azuz and we`re glad to have you along for the ride. Let`s get started. Civilian casualties are increasing in the war in Ukraine. On Wednesday, a maternity hospital in the Ukrainian port city of   Mariupol was bombed. Police in the area initially reported that 17 people were injured. The two sides fighting in the war, the Russian and Ukrainian   militaries, each blamed the other for the attack. A few hours before the bombing, a Russian government spokeswoman said Ukrainian forces had moved workers and patients out of the hospital and put   combat units in it. But video recorded after the attack showed civilian patients and staff members emerging from the wreckage. The Mariupol City   Council and the Ukrainian president say Russia bombed the hospital. Strikes were reported on Wednesday at other civilian locations in Ukraine, as well as at military sites. NATO, an alliance of U.S. and European   countries, has been looking at ways to send more weapons to help the Ukrainian military. What NATO doesn`t want to do though is to get directly   involved in the fight against Russia. They don`t want the conflict to extend beyond Ukraine which is not a member of NATO. So when it comes to enforcing a no-fly zone to keep aircraft out of Ukraine, or to giving the nation fighter jets as its government has   requested, NATO countries have been reluctant because Russia has said those actions would make them direct participants in the war. Along with the international sanctions, the penalties on Russia`s economy placed by other governments, numerous American and European businesses are   suspending some or all of their operations in Russia in protest over its invasion of Ukraine. These companies include Apple, Disney, Exxon, IKEA, McDonald`s, PayPal, Visa and Warner Media which owns CNN. In the parts of Ukraine where the fighting was suspended yesterday, there was gridlock on the roads as thousands of people tried to get away from   areas of conflict. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  You can see there are thousands of people now in their own cars streaming out through these   safe corridors that have been set up by the Russians and the Ukrainians, to give these people a chance to escape the ferocious bombardment that they`ve   been suffering. Some of the cars have got children written on them. There`s one over here with the word getting written on, and they`ve all filled with their own children, other people`s children, children of   neighbors that they`ve taken with them, just anything they can do to get them out into the relative safety of Kyiv, and onward towards the west.   Many of them heading towards Poland, to the west of Ukraine. You see here as well there`s been some effort set up as a sort of reception for the people because a lot of the people we`ve spoken to inside these   cars so that they`ve spent days without any proper food, without any water, without any light. It`s been really, really difficult for them. And so, you know, even though this isn`t perfect, it is at least a chance for these people to about to save their own lives. Matthew Chance, CNN, on the outskirts of Kyiv. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Up next, what`s been called South Korea`s unlikable election. According to the "Reuters News Agency," both of the major candidates for   the country`s next president had high disapproval ratings going in. South Korean leaders are limited to one term lasting five years, and anyone who   gets elected has instant geopolitical challenges to deal with. South Korea is an ally of the United States, a status it shares with Japan, which is less than 200 miles east. But in the other direction, at roughly   the same distance is mainland China and across the border is North Korea, both of those countries are U.S. rivals -- managing all that is only part   of the challenge for prospective South Korean leaders. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Now it has been a particularly tight race between these two leading contenders for president of South Korea, one   liberal, one conservative. They are ideologically opposed, the two men, and whoever takes power in May as president of this country will have some   significant foreign policy issues to deal with. It is worth pointing out that neither one of them actually has any foreign policy experience to speak of. For example, you have Lee Jae-myung on the liberal side. Now, he is a former mayor, he`s a former governor. And then on the conservative side, you have from the People Power Party, Yoon Suk-yeol, who is effectively a political novice. He`s a former state   prosecutor. But they will have some significant issues to deal with. For example, Russia`s invasion of Ukraine, both candidates have had to apologize during   the campaign for either statements or tweets they have done to -- during the campaign stage but they both say that they do support the sanctions   against Russia. And of course, when it comes to North Korea, they will be dealing with the North Korea who is far more concerned at this point with testing weapon   systems and launching missiles than actually talking to the United States, let alone to South Korea. Now, Lee from the liberal side is saying that he would follow what President Moon Jae-in has been doing in the fact that he wants engagement   with North Korea. He would have a step-by-step process towards denuclearization. Yoon Suk-yeol on the conservative side is far more hard-  line, saying he would only ease sanctions once there is complete denuclearization. For voters coming to the polls, they are looking at the economy. They are looking at the extremely expensive housing market here. That is a big   consideration, and also gender issues have really played in to this year`s election. Paula Hancocks, CNN, Seoul. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  The two South Korean candidates had been neck and neck in the polls. But after the votes had been counted overnight, the president-elect was the   conservative candidate Yoon Suk-yeol. He won 48.5 percent of the ballot, while the liberal candidate Lee Jae-myung won 47.8 percent.   The U.S. government congratulated Yoon and said it looked forward to expanding the close cooperation between America and South Korea. The last American state to have a mask mandate plans to get rid of it but not until later this month. Hawaii has had some of the strictest   coronavirus rules in the country. Its governor says because COVID cases and hospitalizations have been decreasing there, like they have been in the   vast majority of the U.S., Hawaii will end its mass mandate on March 25th at 11:59 p.m. That`s also when people who travel there won`t have to show   proof they`ve been vaccinated or a negative COVID test in order to avoid spending five days in quarantine. Compared to most other states, Hawaii has had a relatively low number of COVID cases and deaths blamed on the disease. But its governor says mask   requirements could still be reinstated if there`s another surge of coronavirus. And Hawaii`s Department of Education says students will still   be required to wear masks in public schools so they can take them off when they`re outside. Like other states and countries around the world, Hawaii has seen protests over its COVID restrictions. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these options is not the name of a real spider? Hercules baboon spider, Face-sized tarantula, Brazilian salmon pink birdeater, or Mothra huntsman? Though they frequently eat moths, no spider has yet gotten the name Mothra huntsman. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  The not-so itsy-bitsy spider has climbed all over the American southeast, will it be headed north? That is the question concerning the   Joro spider, a multicolored arachnid that can grow larger than the palm of your hand. This species is not native to the United States. It`s from   southeastern Asia, and no one knows how it got to America. But in recent years, it`s spread rapidly in the warm southern climate and while the Joro spider is venomous, it poisons the insects it eats,   biologists say it`s not considered a threat to humans. They also don`t think it`s a threat to the environment even though it`s an invasive   species. But scientists say more research needs to be done on that to be sure. They`re also uncertain about whether these large spiders will crawl or travel in the wind to locations farther north. Some say they can withstand   colder climates but that the northern and western U.S. are too cold for these creature`s comfort. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  This year`s agriculture fair in Paris, France, had a pretty grand finale, sheep on the Champs-Elysees. Two thousand twenty-two sheep along   with herders and hundreds of artists ambled along the acclaimed avenue. But, Carl, you may be asking, why? One breeder said it`s to show the city slickers in Paris that there`s a large economy that depends on farming in the mountains. Various animals and   performers strolled for one kilometer down the Champs-Elysees. That`s not just a yarn. We`re not trying to pull the wool over your eyes. Maybe it took a little herd mentality, but that close-knit community was   able to blanket an entire street covering crosswalks and cross-stitch like there was mutton to it. I`m Carl Azuz. Today`s shout-out takes us to Jacksonville Lighthouse Charter School. It is located in Jacksonville, Arkansas. Come on back   tomorrow for Friday`s awesome edition of CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-03-11
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  First point of business on today`s show that sums a lot of things up is a timeless, quote, Fridays are awesome. I`m Carl Azuz. It`s great to have you watching as we kick off this Friday`s coverage. We are less than eight months away from the U.S. midterm elections of 2022. In the House of Representatives where all the voting members are elected   every two years, there are currently 222 Democrats, 211 Republicans, and two vacant seats. U.S. senators serve six-year terms. About a third of these seats are elected every two years. And in that chamber, there are currently 50   Republicans and 50 Democrats, technically two of the Democrat seats are held by independents but they vote with the Democrats. So, 50 Democratic   votes when things go down party lines. The midterm elections could significantly change the make-ups of these two chambers, so you can expect to see a lot of coverage in the months ahead in   national media. But a lot of the action on November 8th goes well beyond the U.S. Congress. The capitals of Arkansas, Florida, New Jersey, West   Virginia, they`re among those holding mayoral races. Plus, there are dozens of gubernatorial races, local races. We`ll let CNN 10 contributor Rachel Janfaza take it from here. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RACHEL JANFAZA, CNN10 CONTRIBUTOR:  Every two years in the United States, voters go to the polls and while Americans aren`t picking a president this   November, there are a number of high-profile seats on the ballot. The elections in the middle of a president`s term are called the midterm elections. Many refer to these as a referendum on the president and their   administration. These elections give voters a chance to weigh in on what`s happening both in their home communities and on Capitol Hill. In 2022, all 435 House seats and 34 of the 100 Senate seats are up for grabs, and 36 out of 50 states will elect governors. There are also   statewide races for secretary of state and attorney general, as well as city-wide races for mayor in cities such as Los Angeles, California,   Austin, Texas, and Washington, D.C. And there are down ballot races for state legislature seats, city councils, and school boards across the   country too. Historically, elections halfway through a president`s term don`t bode well for the president`s party. In this century since voters began electing U.S.   senators, the president`s party has only gained seats in either the Senate or the House a handful of time and only in both chambers twice. At stake is   the battle for control of the House and Senate. The Democrats majority in Congress is razor thin. The Senate is a 50-50 split, with Vice President Kamala Harris`s tie-breaking vote giving them   the advantage and Speaker Nancy Pelosi`s control of the House rests on a single-digit margin. Typically, the midterm elections have lower turnout than presidential election years, but in 2018, the last midterm elections on the books, there   was historic voter turnout especially among younger voters. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Got word yesterday afternoon that a deal has been reached in Major League Baseball between team owners and the players association. The two   sides have been hung up over a new collective bargaining agreement. The terms they have to agree on before games could take place; players`   salaries, contract rules, post-season rules. They`re all part of this. And when the owners and players couldn`t reach a deal last year, the league announced a lockout that kept players from training at team facilities and   put new trades and contracts on hold. Opening day was postponed, some games were canceled. But now that an agreement`s reportedly been reached, we expect to hear the words play ball   pretty soon. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these U.S. government organizations is the oldest? Department of Agriculture, Postal Service, Customs Service, or Presidential Cabinet? Dating back to 1775, years before the Constitution was signed, the Postal Service is the oldest institution on this list. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  The U.S. Congress has taken a step to try to solve one of the ongoing problems with the Postal Service. This is the only organization   that`s allowed to deliver mail in the United States and it has plenty of work to do. The COVID shutdowns that started two years ago led to increased   package deliveries. There`s been a steady stream of first-class mail, which includes everything from business and legal documents, to credit and debit cards, notices from   the IRS, license plates. But the USPS faces a series of unique challenges and part of the reason is the unique way in which the organization operates. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORTER:  The U.S. Postal Service can trace its history back to when the Second Continental Congress appointed Benjamin Franklin as postmaster   general to help ensure that free ideas and information could be shared throughout the colony. It was not intended to be a profitable business. REP. RO KHANNA (D-CA):  It`s about service, correct? Not about profit. REPORTER:  Today, there`s no other government agency or business that operates like the Postal Service. First of all, the U.S. Postal Service receives zero tax dollars for operating expenses. The Postal Service has to use its own revenue from   things like stamps and package deliveries to operate, although it does receive indirect government subsidies such as having a protected monopoly   on delivering first-class mail. Secondly, the Postal Service doesn`t set its own prices like FedEx and UPS do. Congress sets them. But by law, USPS has to deliver to every home in   the country, no matter how remote or unprofitable that delivery may be. Case in point; to this day, the Postal Service delivers mail to a small group of people living in the Grand Canyon by mule. This leads to the third problem; the U.S. Postal Service has been losing money for over a decade. LOUIS DEJOY, UNITED STATES POSTMASTER GENERAL:  Without change, our losses will only increase in the years to come. REPORTER:  In 2019, the Postal Service reported $71 billion in revenue, but its expenses totaled almost $80 billion. If you dig into those numbers   though, the picture becomes a bit complicated. In 2006, Congress passed the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act. It requires the U.S. Postal Service to pre-fund 75 years worth of retirees`   health care benefits in the span of about 10 years. Before this law went into effect, the Postal Service was reporting profits. So, the U.S. Postal Service is subject to the congressional oversight of other federal agencies without any of the taxpayer funding. It has the   profit-driven business model of a private company, without the freedom to make financial decisions for itself. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  The funding requirement for retirees` health care benefits isn`t the only reason the USPS has been losing money. Its profits had been shrinking   before that law. The advent of email reduced the letters Americans were sending. A series of bad business decisions also lost money for the   service. But the health funding law became a major factor in USPS losses, and a new bill that`s passed in Congress will get rid of that requirement. The Postal   Service Reform Act has support from Democrats and Republicans. It passed last month in the House of Representatives by a vote of 342-92. It passed   the other day in the Senate by a vote of 79 to 19.   What it`ll do is require postal workers who`ve retired to enroll in Medicare, a government health insurance program for Americans ages 65 and   older. It`s mostly funded by taxpayers so the Postal Service won`t have to pay those costs itself. Critics of the bill say it won`t do much else though, like it won`t have any impact on mail delivery service. The bill`s headed to President Joe   Biden`s desk for signature. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  For 10 out of 10, a real-life rodeo on the streets of Los Angeles. A cow recently got loose there and brought traffic to a really slow pace for   a while, but then hilarity ensued as it ran in and out of neighborhoods, in and out of parking lots, up the stairs, evading authorities again and   again. At one point, it even strolled alongside a truck with a fake horse in it. Finally, near a ranch, resolute wranglers roped the reckless ruminant. If only it cud have escaped to Beverly Hills and hoofed it down Rodeo Drive. It might have been the lasso place you`d expect to see it. Cow   prince may not be on the menu or the moo. But leather`s always in, so if you`re bullish about rounding up some steer style, that`s the place to   stake out. I`m Carl Azuz and there`s the beef. Klein Collins High School, great to see you watching from Spring, Texas. And we hope everyone has a wonderful weekend from all of us here at CNN 10. END 

Date: 2022-03-14
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. I`m Carl Azuz. Welcome to a new show, a new week and for many of us, a new civil time. Speaking of time, it has been two years since America started shutting down because of the coronavirus pandemic. In fact, it was on March 16, 2020 that   the U.S. government announced a two-week plan to try to slow the spread of the disease. The shutdowns and stay-at-home orders that followed stretched   for more than a month, but the disease itself continued to spread in waves in different times of the years afterward and at different levels of   severity. COVID-19 was first identified in China in late 2019. By March of 2020, the World Health Organization had officially declared the disease a pandemic,   meaning it had spread around the world. And even though that was still early days, the effects were rippling widely and quickly. Here`s a clip that CNN 10 aired on March 13, 2020. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP, MARCH 13, 2020) AZUZ:  The U.S. Capitol is now closed to visitors. The Metropolitan Museum of Art is closed. The National Basketball League has suspended all of its   games. The National Hockey League announced the same thing yesterday. Major League Baseball has suspended spring training. March Madness has been   canceled. Disneyland is closed. Around the world, there have been cancellations and closures like these, sometimes including countries borders. And international stock markets have   seen dramatic swings and losses. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Back and forth messages and mandates on masks, jobs lost and many regained, vaccines developed faster than any others in history, outbreaks   and immunity, working from home and on the front lines, remote learning, controversies and consequences, supply chain disruptions and soaring   inflation -- the ripple effects of the pandemic continue to impact our lives today, even though the number of new COVID cases is either holding   steady or falling in almost every U.S. state. Health experts don`t know if another dangerous variant, another version of COVID is on the horizon. The omicron mutation that hit the U.S. late last   year was less severe and deadly than previous waves of the disease, even though it was more contagious.  Some doctors have suggested this might have signaled that the disease was turning a corner, that COVID-19 was becoming something milder like the cold   or the flu that people live with. Time will tell if that`s what`s happening. People and nations are hopeful it is, and COVID restrictions are   being lifted in countries around the world. By the end of this month, Hawaii will be the only U.S. state that still requires students to wear masks in class. That`s been one controversial   restriction of the COVID pandemic, just like the remote learning that became widespread when schools shut down. Differences in access, parents   needed at home, lower test scores, impacts on students mental health -- these were some of the criticisms of distance learning, but it did allow   students and teachers to still see and communicate with each other throughout the pandemic. And that`s one thing that`s currently helping   Ukrainian teachers and students with their nation at war. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  An all too familiar scene of parents that lived through the COVID pandemic.  Children fidgeting through a Zoom class about the solar system. The difference here, most of these Ukrainian school kids are refugees,   reconnecting with their classmates and teacher online.  In the last two weeks, the students and their teacher fled to different countries to escape Russia`s invasion of Ukraine.  How old are your students?  NADIA PAVLENKO, TEACHER WHO FLED UKRAINE:  Seven, eight.  WATSON:  From Poland, Nadia Pavlenko teaches her students online classes even though her school stopped paying her salary.  None of us know what happened next, she says, but these classes with my children are like a bridge to my past life in Ukraine. They help us feel   connected.  Wartime distance learning, there`s a lot of this going on right now.  Do you think the online classes are helping these kids?  ALEXANDER PARCALAB, TEACHER WHO FLED UKRAINE:  Very much. It`s helping them and mental health to feel their routine that life is still going on, that   it`s not the end of the world.  WATSON:  Alexander Parcalab is a schoolteacher who fled the Ukrainian city of Odessa to neighboring Moldova. In the morning, he teaches students from   his Ukrainian school online.  PARCALAB:  Children asked me if I`m safe, where I am, with who I am. They were asking me before me was asking them.  WATSON:  In the morning he comes here, a makeshift school for Ukrainian children in the Moldovan capital.  Half of his online students fled across borders, the other half are still in Ukraine.  PARCALAB:  The first lesson in Zoom, I said, that you should be that this first domino, to help somebody, maybe your mother need help, maybe mother`s   friends need help. I cannot change the world but I can change me and change like the mood of my mother and it will be like a domino.  WATSON:  These girls say they`re looking forward to starting online classes with their Ukrainian classmates on Monday.  Leana (ph) says she wants to find out where her classmates traveled to and to make sure that they`re healthy right now.  Eight-year-old Timor Zhdanov (ph) and his father Artem stayed behind in Ukraine.  Were you surprised when Timor`s teachers said, hey, we`re going to continue online learning?  ARTEM ZHDANOV, SON CONTINUES REMOTE LEARNING IN UKRAINE:  Honestly, yeah. I think they`re feeling this strong connection with Ukraine and then want to   support us as much as they can and also a new generation of Ukrainian people.  WATSON:  A new generation that may grow up in exile relying on technology to stay connected to their homeland.  (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: The Calder Act of 1928 was another name for what? Daylight-Saving Time Act, Time Zone Establishment Act, Standard Time Act, or Hour Back and Forward Act? The law named for Senator William Calder established all of these things but it was named the Standard Time Act. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  It`s time to save daylight y`all. I always notice a lot more negative news coverage of the time change in the spring when we lose an   hour of sleep than in the fall when we get it back. Why does this tradition persist more than a hundred years after it began? (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JENNIFER GRAY, AMS METEOROLOGIST:  So why do we change the clocks ahead one hour in the spring and back one hour in the fall? Well, it`s actually to reduce the electricity consumption by extending the daylight hours. SUBTITLE: Why do we change our clocks? GRAY: In the U.S., we change our clocks at 2:00 a.m. on the second Sunday in March. That begins Daylight Saving Time, that`s when we spring ahead. On the first Sunday in November, we change our clock at 2:00 a.m. again, that`s actually just going back to Standard Time. Believe it or not, this started with an idea from Benjamin Franklin. Franklin did write an essay suggesting that people could use less candles   if they got up early and made better use of daylight. In 1918, the Standard Time Act established time zones, and Daylight Saving Time. But not all states participate. To this day, most of Arizona and all   of Hawaii do not change their clocks. Over 70 countries across the world observe Daylight Saving Time, with notable exceptions of China and Japan. In 2007, we actually change the date of when we set our clocks back an hour to the first week in November. This helped protect trick-or-treaters by   giving them an extra hour of daylight. One of the other lines of thinking was that we would have a better voter turnout on election years. Experts say each time you change your clocks, it`s always a good idea to change those batteries in your smoke detector and always look forward to   fall when you get that extra hour of sleep. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  In 1914, the Anglo-Irish explorer Ernest Shackleton did not succeed in his expedition across Antarctica. His ship, the HMS Endurance, became   trapped in and later crushed by the ice. Though Shackleton and all of his crew survived after a nearly two-year ordeal their ship was lost until now. Modern day explorers just announced her discovery almost two miles deep near Antarctica`s northern coast. The Endurance is incredibly well   preserved in the frigid waters. Her name visible and legible, her wheel looking like it did in 1914, and she`ll be photographed, mapped and studied   but not moved from her final resting place. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Sticking with the nautical theme, a Minnesota couple who love lighthouses decided to build their own in the middle of Minnesota. So no   water anywhere around except for a small lake, but the view of the woods is said to be amazing.  It took them two years to build this. It has six floors, bedrooms, bathrooms, a crow`s nest that`s feet high, and while it won`t save any   ships, it is available for rent at about 300 bucks a night. A good place to stay guests say is an oasis, a sight to see on a landlubber`s basis, a delightful house illuminating renters` faces a bright   nautical light and some unlikely places. Sailors may prefer the beach but in others` cases, if you want something different for a change of paces,   just sail through the woods with wakes of snow on your wassies (ph) as you take the maritime to navigate from the right races. I mean, why not?  I`m Carl Azuz. Schalick High School gets today`s shout out. Hello to you our viewers in Pittsgrove, New Jersey. And thank you for your comment and your request on   our YouTube Channel. END     

Date: 2022-03-15
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Welcome to the show. We`re happy to see you this Tuesday. My name is Carl Azuz. In the two and a half weeks since Russia invaded neighboring Ukraine, more than two and a half million Ukrainians have left their country. That`s   according to the United Nations. Almost half of these refugees have fled to Poland, hundreds of thousands have crossed into Hungary, Moldova, Romania,   Slovakia, and Russia says as many as 250,000 from Eastern Ukraine have entered Russia, though CNN can`t independently confirm that. Most of those who`ve left Ukraine are women and children. Men between the ages of 18 and 60 have been banned from leaving and encouraged to join the   military. The Russian invasion which that country calls a special military operation is the biggest attack on a European nation since World War II. Extensive damage has been reported in several Ukrainian cities. Two American officials recently told CNN that after its invasion began, Russia   asked China for support including money and military equipment like drones. Analysts say Chinese assistance could help balance the sanctions, the   economic punishments that Western countries have put on Russia`s economy.  But China and Russia have both denied that a request like that was made, with a Chinese official calling it disinformation and saying his country`s   been pushing for peace talks. Government officials from Russia and Ukraine have been meeting regularly. Some of these talks have been in person. Some   have been virtual.  But as of last night, they hadn`t yet resulted in a ceasefire. The U.S. government which has been supporting the Ukrainian military with supplies   and weapons says Russia`s progress in Ukraine has stalled, but an American defense official says Russia still has percent of the combat power it had   when it invaded. Ukrainian forces have been targeting Russian supply lines as well as the country`s tanks and aircraft. Ukrainian officials say Russia has been going   after their military and civilian infrastructure leaders worldwide continue to push for the war to end and for aid to Ukrainian refugees. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of the following objects has not been left on the moon?  A Bible, the U.S. Marine Corps flag, a tennis shoe, or a tie tack? (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  A lot of boots have been left on the moon but NASA has no record of a tennis shoe having been left there. Scientists say it`s likely that the first human footprint on the moon, the one made by astronaut Neil Armstrong in 1969 is still there with no wind to   blow it away. You could call it a piece of space archaeology.  Since the year 2000, the International Space Station has served as an orbiting laboratory. It`s the biggest and most expensive object people have   ever built at a cost of around $150 billion. But it`s aged a great deal and NASA plans to get rid of it in less than 10 years. There`s no plan to bring   back any of its artifacts for future research. So astronauts have begun photographing parts of the ISS daily, like a wall of tools to help researchers record study and preserve an account of what   life is like in zero gravity. The days of the ISS itself are numbered. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RACHEL CRANE, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Ever wonder what happens when something as big as the International Space Station gets decommissioned? It doesn`t   get pushed farther into space. Instead, it gets sent hurtling back towards Earth.  And because it`s too big to be fully destroyed by the Earth`s atmosphere, the flaming debris has to land somewhere. And that place is here. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You may call me Captain Nemo. CRANE:  Named for the character in "20,000 Leagues Under the Sea", Point Nemo is so remote that astronauts on the ISS, which orbits 227 nautical   miles above earth are often closer to it than any other humans.  Nestled 3,000 miles east of New Zealand and 2,000 miles north of Antarctica, Point Nemo has become the final home for more than 263 pieces   of space debris since 1971. That includes Russia`s Mir Space Station and NASA`s first space station Skylab. But the ISS won`t fall to the bottom of the ocean fully intact. Rather, it will break into fragments as it settles below the sea. The International   Space Station is expected to keep operating until the end of 2030, before it`s crashed into Point Nemo.  But it won`t just drop like a cannonball out of space. NASA will begin to prepare the ISS for de-orbit as early as 2026, by lowering the altitude of   the space lab. It`s expected to crash back to earth by January 2031. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  With the exception of windows and patios, this used to be the only kind of screen people encountered on a regular basis. Now, they`re   everywhere from the grocery check out to the gasoline pump and an American chain of pharmacy stores is testing out a new kind of screen on the doors   of its drink coolers. You can`t always see through the screens to what`s actually inside and one shopper wrote on social media that he had to watch   an ad to know where the frozen pizzas were.  That`s part of the reason why this new technology has left a sour taste among some consumers. Why was it installed in the first place? (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Someone explain this to me. Right? REPORTER:  In some Walgreens locations, glass refrigerator doors have been replaced with these digital screens as part of a pilot program. And some   are taken to social media to say they don`t like them.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Could you open up the thing to get me some water? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It`s really inviting --   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Yes.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (INAUDIBLE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  What in the world, they lied? Why would they lie? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Man, what if -- what if you`re sold out of something and it doesn`t register? If only there was a way that we could see inside   of a freezer, you know, like a glass door?  REPORTER:  The technology comes from Cooler Screens. The CEO says he started the company when he saw the customer experience gap between   shopping online and shopping in a physical store and wanted to bring these experiences together. ARSEN AVAKIAN, CEO AND CO-FOUNDER, COOLER SCREENS:  We`re creating this hybrid experience, right? You are shopping in a physical store and the all   the best that comes with it, right? Immediately, you grab the product you want. It`s readily available, but you get the benefit of as if you`re   shopping online, of having all this richness of information and content and interaction. REPORTER:  The company tries to create what they call a retail media network, brands pay Cooler Screens to run ads. Retailers such as Walgreens   share a cut from the advertising. Sensors and cameras are set up both inside and outside of the fridges to track consumer activities. AVAKIAN:  And retailers were obsessed about digital transformation and we gave them something very specific and tangible that was solving a real   consumer problem and yet was bringing them real business benefits.  REPORTER:  The company claims people love this technology. However, some consumers say they`ve found it confusing.  Julio Sevilla, a consumer behavior professor from the University of Georgia, says people tend to prefer simplicity in retail settings. JULIO SEVILLA, ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR, UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA:  You know, you probably just want to make it easier, right? We all love to get into a   supermarket and know exactly what we`re getting. I know also exactly where things are, right? And also rely on the fact that you may find things so   for this type of more utilitarian, not pleasure-related settings, I think people like their certainty and their simplicity. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  This is crazy.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I`m so confused. I can`t believe this is happening. AVAKIAN:  When there is a new technology, right, consumers are always suspicious. So I respect that. I think -- I mean -- and I`m empathetic to   that. So it`s very important for a new company like ours to always educate the consumers about what it really does and what it doesn`t do. SUBTITLE: Walgreens told CNN that it remain committed to exploring digital innovation in effort to deliver new and different experiences for   customers. The company will continue to evaluate locations and number of pilot stores in partnership with Cooler Screens - Walgreen spokesperson. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  For 10 out of 10, what do you call a tea party held more than four miles higher than sea level? High tea. This is a climbing party, having a   tea party on Mount Everest. They were at an altitude of 21,312 feet when they busted out beverages and cookies.  The picture was taken last May but Guinness World Records just certified it as the highest tea party ever held. The organizer who reached the mountain   summit two weeks after this photo was taken said the greatest things in life are often those shared. What a great way to celebrate with your bemates (ph). Of course, they`ve probably been climbing for a long time. They ferment to do more while they   were there. They might have been Dar-reeling from the altitude and the tea was probably cold. But they totally dunked on that previous record, and it wasn`t just the tradition that was steeped. I`m Carl Azuz. From La Plata, Maryland, we heard from La Plata High School. Shout out to you and thank you for subscribing and leaving a comment on our   YouTube channel. That`s a wrap for CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-03-16
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. I`m Carl Azuz, delivering your midweek edition of CNN 10.  Thank you for watching. While so much international attention is focused right now on what`s happening in Ukraine, some experts on international affairs are focused on   what could happen in Taiwan.  This is an island that`s a little bigger than the U.S. state of Maryland. It`s located about miles southeast of mainland China and Taiwan and China   have a very sensitive relationship.  China`s communist government considers the island to be a part of China. It has since the 1940s when the communist party won a civil war and forced the   nation`s previous government to flee to Taiwan. Since then, every communist leader of the mainland has promised to take control of the island.  But Taiwan has its own government, a democracy and wants to keep things as they are. So their dispute is not new. What is are concerns that China may   be looking at Russia`s invasion of Ukraine and the international response to it and considering doing something similar in Taiwan. To be clear, we   don`t know if that`s going to happen.  The U.S. supports Taiwan like it does Ukraine. It sent weapons to the island like it has to Ukraine and America wants to limit China`s influence   in Asia, like it wants to limit Russia`s influence in Eastern Europe.  But if the international sanctions on Russia are not enough to stop its invasion of Ukraine, would a similar policy toward China be enough to   prevent it from targeting Taiwan? (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Kyiv and Taipei, two capitals half a world apart. One under siege, the other on   edge.  I worry this may happen to Taiwan, he says.  These two work at a small vegetable stand.  If war breaks out, it`s bad for both sides, she says. It will be a tragedy.  Russian President Vladimir Putin`s attack on Ukraine raising questions about the future of Taiwan, a self-governing democracy claimed but never   controlled by Beijing`s communist rulers.  Taiwan`s leaders say Ukraine could be a blueprint for Beijing to, quote, reunify by force if necessary.  JOSEPH WU, FOREIGN MINISTER OF TAIWAN:  And the danger will be that the Chinese leaders think that the Western reaction to the Russian aggression   is weak.  RIPLEY:  Taiwan`s military is on high alert. The island`s reserve forces are doubling down on combat training just in case China decides to make   good on its threats. Chinese President Xi Jinping`s first face-to-face meeting with a foreign leader since COVID? President Putin in Beijing bolstering their   authoritarian partnership.  China still refuses to call the crisis in Ukraine an invasion.  J. MICHAEL COLE, SENIOR FELLOW, GLOBAL INSTITUTE TAIWAN:  There is a possibility, however slim, that autocratic regimes could decide for their   own calculations, their own reasons, to use force against a democratic country.  RIPLEY:  China does not consider Taiwan a country. They call it an inalienable part of Chinese territory.  On Monday, China`s foreign minister, Wang Yi, shot down comparisons of Taiwan and Ukraine, calling Taiwan independence a dead end, a scheme to   contain China by external forces like the U.S.  (END VIDEOTAPE) RIPLEY (on camera):  There are important differences between Ukraine and Taiwan. First of all, Taiwan`s an island, so it`s much harder to invade.   Plus, regional allies like Japan have already signaled that they would come to the island`s defense if China invaded.  The U.S. keeping its policy of strategic ambiguity, but Taiwan is in critical importance to the U.S. because of this location on the first   island chain sitting right there in the middle strategically protecting the United States from a potential Chinese invasion. Taiwan, also a global   leader in semiconductors that power pretty much every device in our lives. And, of course, those same things also make Taiwan very attractive to   China. All eyes now on this partnership between China and Russia, to see what develops in the coming weeks. Will Ripley, CNN, Taipei. AZUZ:  There`s already a global shortage of semiconductors aka computer chips. The reasons for that include shutdowns related to COVID, soaring   demand for electronics that use semiconductors and trade restrictions between the U.S. and China.  Now, some U.S. carmakers are delivering vehicles without certain features because they don`t have enough chips to fully finish them. For instance   people in the back seats of new Ford Explorers won`t have air and heat adjustments. Their temperature will be controlled from the front of the   car. Last year, General Motors stopped including heated seats and parking help features on some models, as well as systems that help improve gas   mileage because of the chip shortage.  But the companies say they can add many of these features to customers` cars later on at no charge when chips become available. Despite this issue   car, prices are at record highs. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: What is meant by the term "plein air"?  Taking a walk, painting outdoors, open-cockpit flying, or leaving untreated? When it comes to art, plein air painting is completed outside. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  It`s a popular and classic method of producing landscapes, though some artists prefer to photograph the great outdoors and then paint them   later in their studios.  There are three main types of landscape art. Representational, which aims to be more realistic. There`s impressionistic art which is less detailed   and more painterly. And there`s abstract, which sets free the artist`s imagination. Today`s feature centers on the work of an impressionistic modern artist. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) STEPHEN WONG, LANDSCAPE PAINTER:  I always think that being a landscape painter, you need to be greedy about space. I always like to include more   and more. In a landscape, actually, the sky is a very important element to manipulate the whole feelings of the scenery. The colors of the sky and   also the clouds, what forms they are on that day. But at the same time, they are changing very quickly. Comparatively the trees and also the mountains, they are quite stable, but they are influenced by the light and shadow. All these impressions affect   how I paint. SUBTITLE:  Landscape painter Stephen Wong is working on one of his most ambitious projects to date. Capturing the 100-kilometer MacLehose Trail in   Hong Kong across 10 large-scale canvases and nearly 40 smaller works. WONG:  The MacLehose Trail is a very iconic trail in Hong Kong. When you hike from Sai Kung to the Tuen Mun area, you come across to so many famous   mountains, beaches, to the very famous reservoir with thousand islands. During the hike, the whole space is really big and also I come across to so many different things.  When you sketch and you draw, you really have to choose what really interested you or what you think is important. This make it quite different   from taking photograph.  After coming back to the studio, I will try to recompose what I have experienced in the trail. I combine the sketches, my memory of hiking.  I use imagination to fill in the blank areas. For me, it`s just like playing Legos. You build up the landscape by composition, lines and colors.   That`s why on the canvas, you can recognize some very iconic scenery but at the same time, you can`t see it in the real nature. I always interested in how I interpret the nature rather than the accuracy of capturing the scenery. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Fun facts two other terms for a wolverine are carcajou and skunk bear. I learn a lot in this job.  Today, I also learned that this is the first wolverine ever captured in the state of Utah. They`re usually found farther north.  Wildlife experts trapped him over the past week. He had been preying on a herd of sheep. They estimate he`s around four years old, 28 pounds and four   feet long. He was sedated, examined and collared so officials can track where he goes. It`s not unusual for wolverines to forge their own paths. They`re rogues that can mimic other predators and wreaking havoc through the ice, man. Of   course, the shepherd hopes officials Vulcan sway that Magneto creature to follow the North Star to a different sunspot beneath the Aurora, even if   that`s a long shot. I`m Carl Azuz, and we`re getting comical on CNN 10.  Methuen High School, it is great to have you watching from Methuen, Massachusetts. END     

Date: 2022-03-17
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, I`m Carl Azuz. Twice a year for as long as I can remember, we reported on the biannual time change observed by the United States and dozens of other countries.   Whatever would we talk about if the practice were to stop? But that is our first topic today, the potential end of Standard Time. Right now, America is on the other kind of civil time, Daylight Saving Time. We sprang forward to that, moving our clocks ahead one hour earlier   this week. However, a bill to make Daylight Saving Time permanent, meaning we`d no longer change our clocks twice a year has just sailed through the   U.S. Senate and if it passes in the House and is signed by President Joe Biden, bye-bye time change in America. U.S. Senator Marco Rubio from Florida, a Republican who sponsored the bill, said this isn`t the most important issue facing the country but it`s one   with a lot of agreement. U.S. Senator Sheldon Whitehouse from Rhode Island, a Democrat who sponsored the bill said not falling back in autumn would add   a little sunlight into most people`s lives. So the idea has support of Democrats and Republicans but it`s not clear if or when the House will take up the bill. And if it`s ultimately approved,   the new law wouldn`t take effect until November of 2023. The reason why is that the U.S. transportation industry has already planned out its schedules   for the months ahead. It requested the extra time to prepare for the adjustment. The main goal of Daylight-Saving Time in summer was to save electricity. The practice getting widespread use during World War One. The U.S. Congress   made it permanent in 1966, but it`s not required by law. So no one fines or jails Hawaii and most of Arizona for not observing it. Studies have been mixed on whether DST actually saves electricity. The U.S. government has found that it does a tiny bit for each household that adds   up to a large amount nationwide. A different study by an economic research group found that it increases demand for electric heating and cooling and   that balances out what people save on lighting. Either way, will there be any widespread disagreement about the new law? That`s harder to say. Permanent Daylight Saving Time would mean more   sunlight in the early evening hours of winter, but falling back moves the time of dawn closer to when we wake up, so we`re not starting and ending   our winter days in the dark. We expect to hear more opinions about this in the days ahead. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Where did Napoleon Bonaparte crown himself emperor of the French? Arc de Triomphe, Palace of Versailles, Champs-Elysees, or Notre Dame Cathedral? Napoleon was at Notre Dame when he took the crown from Pope Pius VII and placed it on his own head. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Almost 860 years since construction began on Notre Dame and almost three years since it was damaged by a fire, the renowned cathedral   continues to reveal secrets. Archaeologists are doing some excavation work there before part of the roof is restored and they just came across a   sarcophagus, a coffin made of stone that might date back as far as the 1300s. In addition they found cloth and the remains of some plants, which indicates the relics have been very well-preserved according to experts and   a pit has also been found under the floor of the cathedral. Archaeologists believe it was probably dug around the year 1230. It`s possible none of   this would have been explored if it hadn`t been for the fire. In the months after the blaze took place, investigators suggested it was likely caused either by a discarded cigarette or a problem in the   cathedral`s electrical system, but they weren`t 100 percent sure. French officials are hopeful that Notre Dame will be fully restored and reopened   to the public in 2024. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Its vaulted ceilings, stained glass windows and elaborate columns, as you can see on these images shot by CNN,   so much of what makes Notre Dame, one of the world`s most exquisite gothic wonders, stands tall, almost miraculously. The construction of the cathedral may have taken 182 years from when it began in 1163. It took the fire of 2019 a matter of hours to compromise its   stability. The work of the last two years has been all about ensuring that the cathedral stayed upright. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We want to be sure that the structure is solid. So, I have to take a lot of measures to consolidate. We don`t want to make   reconstruction without being reassured. BELL:  Here you can see the iconic north tower that at one point had been threatened by the flames on the night of the fire. In the end, they were   put out before it could collapse, but this was where the most devastating part of the fire took place and it was here that the famous Notre Dame   spire once stood. As the world watched, the spire which had been under renovation collapsed, breaking through the vaulted ceiling which then crashed into the nave. The   scaffolding that had surrounded it, 40,000 tubes of metal now twisted into the structure then had to be carefully picked through and removed. General Jean-Louis Georgelin who`s in charge of the renovations gave CNN a rare tour. GENERAL JEAN-LOUIS GEORGELIN, IN CHARGE OF THE RENOVATIONS:  This is a place where this spire collapsed, you know? This is the center of a drama. BELL:  The general then shows us the exact spot where the spire first came crashing through. Here the vaulted ceiling is held up by wooden pillars,   each weighing a ton and a half. They ensure, explains the project manager, that if the stones give way for whatever reason, bad weather, a tremor, a shock, while the wooden support   beams will keep the structure standing. This is the central part of the nave where the great majority the reconstruction is going to have to take place since it`s here that the   spire collapsed bringing down the stone structure with it. Elsewhere, what`s really remarkable is how intact the structure is. These stones that   had stood for more than eight centuries almost exactly as they were. Outside, too, the cathedral`s iconic gothic facade stands as a testament to a construction that has proven as sturdy as it is delicate. Cathedral   officials say that almost a billion dollars have been raised through donations from countries so far, a reminder of the place that Notre Dame   has not just in the history of France but in the hearts of so many all around the world. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Three weeks ago, we reported on the Guinness World Record for the most Eminem stacked on top of each other. That record is six. It was   completed by an Australian man not too long ago. The M&Ms have to be plain milk chocolate and they have to stand for at least seconds. I recently said on social media that if that record had been two, I could have totally matched it. It is a lot harder than you think. CNN`s Jeanne Moos interviewed the previous record holder who said that though five was not a big number, the task was no small feat. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  M&Ms, they may have orbited the Earth with the astronauts, but did you ever try to stack them? M&M CHARACTER:  Do you think I`m an idiot? MOOS:  British civil engineer Will Cutbill is no idiot, but folks are underwhelmed when he says he broke the Guinness record for stacking M&M`s   with a grand total of five. WILL CUTBILL, GUINNESS BOOK OF WORLD RECORDS HOLDER:  When I tell them it`s a whopping five, I think they`re a bit shocked that they want to give it a   go straight away and try and beat me. So, it`s a lot harder than it looks. MOOS:  Bored out of his mind on a rainy afternoon during COVID lockdown, Will says he suffered through hundreds of failures. The previous record was four. His master`s degree in civil engineering was useless, doesn`t really take a --   M&M CHARACTER:  Genius. MOOS:  For two to three hours, his mini towers kept collapsing. CUTBILL:  They`re not as flat as you think. They`re quite spherical so it`s a bit like you could imagine balancing footballs or soccer balls. MOOS:  But finally, Will did it. CUTBILL:  Five M&Ms, five M&Ms. M&M CHARACTER:  We win! CUTBILL:  I was pretty ecstatic when I got the fifth one, can`t lie. I was running around the room, arms -- arms in the air. MOOS:  And how did Will honor the winning five chocolate covered candies? CUTBILL:  As soon as the record was broken, I`ve got to admit, I did eat them all. MOOS: Who wants to get chocolate all over your Guinness record? AD ANNOUNCER:  Melts in your mouth, not in your hand. MOOS: Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York. CUTBILL:  Five M&Ms, five M&Ms. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Some of you seemed kind of blue, when you couldn`t stack more than two. Stacking three is news to me, leaving many green with envy. Any lady   or any fellow who`s not yellow could try four but trying five could leave you red-faced when they fall brown to the floor. Still orange you glad you   tried, even if when you say you stacked six you lied. I`m Dr. Carl Azuz snacking and stacking on puns. Annandale High School in Annandale, Virginia, gets today`s shout-out. Folks there know the only way to get a mention on our show is to subscribe and   leave a comment at YouTube.com/CNN10. END     

Date: 2022-03-18
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  From the flight deck, this is your Captain Carl Azuz. We expect this quick 10-minute hop to be awesome, just like the   Friday you`re traveling on. Thank you for flying with CNN 10. If you`re planning to board a real jet this spring break or summer, the plain truth is it`s going to be more expensive. Prices are climbing like   the jets themselves. There are several reasons for this. One is demand. People want to travel. The head of Delta Airlines says he`s never seen demand ramp up so quickly   as it has after the omicron wave of COVID, which hit the U.S. late last year. Planes are filling up with some flights reportedly carrying as many passengers as they did in 2019 before the pandemic, but most airlines still   aren`t operating as many flights as they were then. They`re still having trouble finding enough workers and there been some delays in getting new   planes delivered. Also, while more Americans are traveling within the United States for fun, they`re not traveling as much for business. Many people are still working   from home as they started doing in 2020, so that`s reduced a significant number of airline bookings. The head of American Airlines suggests COVID   rules continue to affect international leisure travel but he says a huge number of people still want to do it and that if countries remove their   restrictions, international bookings could grow back to their 2019 levels by the end of this year. A big reason why all bookings are getting more expensive though is the cost of jet fuel. Mirroring the cost of gas, it`s taken off over the past year.   What`s interesting here is that crude oil prices which factor heavily into the cost of gasoline and jet fuel, they`ve dropped a little since last week   when they hit their highest prices in 13 years. But fuel costs didn`t reflect that right away. Experts say gas prices rise like rockets but fall like feathers -- meaning, they`re quick to increase   when oil prices do but they take a while to settle back down after oil prices drop. For airlines, 20 to 25 percent of their operating expenses   come from fuel costs alone. It`s their largest expense after paying their workers. So, when jet fuel costs go up --   (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PETE MUNTEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Spring break starts at the airport where people are flying more than ever since the start of the   pandemic and they are already paying more. They`re friends of yours? DELEALH SHARP, TRAVELER:  Yeah, this is my friend. MUNTEAN:  Deleah Sharp of Michigan was about to treat herself for her birthday next month. SHARP:  And I was deciding to go to Aruba and in two days, it went up $300. MUNTEAN:  That`s a lot. SHARP:  And I miss the $300 less, so I decided not to go. MUNTEAN:  Jet fuel has spiked to its highest level in more than two years. A CNN analysis of federal data found filling up a Boeing 737 has shot up   $6,800 since the invasion of Ukraine and $13,000 in the last year. Delta, United and JetBlue all say they will pass the cost on to consumers. DARIUS DOLL, TRAVELER:  If it became unreasonable, I think people would forego traveling. It would just depend on how much it would be and how bad   you want to go somewhere. MUNTEAN:  To conserve costs, airlines like Alaska and Southwest say they will slash some flights from schedules. But airline experts say do not be   shocked if carriers get even more creative, charging more for things like Wi-Fi, food, or seat selections. HENRY HARTEVELDT, ATMOSPHERE RESEARCH:  If you`re paying 75 percent more than you were a year ago to gas up your car, I think you can relate to the   plight airlines are facing when they have to pump tens of thousands of gallons of fuel into every one of their planes to transport us. MUNTEAN:  Experts think carriers could get away with charging more since so many people want to fly. American Airlines says demand for travel is at an   all-time high. Now, airlines will have to balance ticket prices or push more people towards staycations. BILL EISELE, TEXAS A&M TRANSPORTATION:  I think this summer we could actually see a lot of people staying closer to home if these gas prices   continue to increase. HARTEVELDT:  I think people will travel, but will they travel by air? It all depends on how much airfares go up. MUNTEAN:  Pete Muntean, CNN, Washington. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these U.S. government laws was passed in 1913? The Federal Reserve Act, the Hatch Act, the Social Security Act, or the Equal Pay Act? The Federal Reserve Act is the oldest of these laws. It established the Federal Reserve system. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Airline tickets are part of a vast assortment of goods and services that have gotten significantly more expensive over the past year.   Inflation, that rise in prices, is at its highest rate since 1982. Many of the things we bought last month were almost eight percent more expensive on average than they were in February 2021. That`s according to   the U.S. Labor Department. The Federal Reserve is America`s Central Bank. It has some actions it can take to try to lower inflation and one of those   involves raising interest rates. If those go up, people and businesses have to pay back more on the money they borrow, but that can also reduce demand for large purchases like   houses and if demand decreases, prices and inflation can sink back down to more reasonable levels. For the first time since 2018, the Fed has raised   interest rates and its chairman said it had to act because U.S. economic conditions weren`t getting better on their own. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  The era of cheap money is over. As the Federal Reserve starts raising interest rates to fight   inflation, you might be wondering what those higher rates mean for you. In short, higher borrowing costs. Expect higher rates on car loans, credit   cards, student debt and mortgages. The 30-year fixed-rate mortgage has already climbed almost 4 percent. Now, that`s still historically cheap, but it`s a sharp jump from recent lows. Higher rates will hit the stock market too. Zero percent interest rates have forced investors into riskier assets like stocks. Now, the stock   market will face more competition from more boring investments by government bonds. And more expensive business loans can cause companies to   pause on investments and hiring. So, will rate hikes be good for savers then? Not so fast, money stashed in savings and CDs has earned almost nothing for the past couple of years.   Savers will in theory start to earn interest again. But in practice, it could take a while to play out. Those interest rates will still be very   low, well below inflation. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  There`s all kinds of work going on in the French capital. Yesterday, we told you about reconstruction of the Notre Dame Cathedral. Today, we`re   explaining how the Eiffel Tower just got taller. Until this week, the Parisian landmark measured around 1,063 feet from the base to the tippet top. Now, it stands at 1,083 feet and a new antenna is   the reason why. The tower was originally built for a world`s fair in 1889. It`s a wrought iron feat of engineering that also commemorated the hundred-year   anniversary of the French Revolution. And while it got plenty of criticism at first with a number of artists and writers calling it an eyesore, La Tour Eiffel withstood that to become one   of the most famous landmarks on the planet. Over the past century, the tower has been used for radio broadcasts and science experiments. The digital audio antenna that was installed on   Tuesday is one of several that have been attached to the top of the tower. So, it`s not the first one that has changed Eiffel`s height. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Could your clothes be listening? Researchers at MIT say they`ve devised a fabric that can act as a microphone. It`s a flexible fiber that can be woven into clothing they say   it can sense sounds in the direction they`re coming from and then convert those vibrations into electrical signals. Besides detecting when you`re   about to burp, professors say this could be used to monitor a baby`s heartbeat or let you talk on the phone through your shirt. Lend me your ears, the thought of sounds more than skin deep could make some people tympanic, going insane in the membrane. But could it give you   good vibes. In a tent, it could help you keep an ear to the ground. In a flight suit, it could help pilots listen up. And in fishing gear, it could   help keep people hooked on microphonics. So, I guess it all comes down to whatever you think sounds good. I`m Carl Azuz and I hear that South High School is watching today from Denver, Colorado. Have a great weekend y`all. END     

Date: 2022-03-21
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. I`m Carl Azuz for CNN 10. As you can hear, I`ve got a bit of laryngitis today but we`ve still got plenty of news to tell you about. So please bear with my voice and we`ll   explain what`s happening in the world. Three and a half weeks after Russia invaded neighboring Ukraine, no one knows when the war will end or exactly what needs to happen to end it.  In a recent phone call with the leader of Turkey, Russian President Vladimir Putin outlined his conditions for a ceasefire. They included a   promise from Ukraine that it would never join NATO, an alliance of European and North American countries. The Russian leader also wants Ukraine to give   up its weapons. He wants what he calls, quote, nazification in Ukraine to stop and he wants the nation to remove obstacles to the Russian language   being widely taught there. What does Ukraine want? The government of Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelenskyy is pushing for an immediate cease-fire stopping the fighting. It   wants Russia to remove its military forces from Ukraine and it wants Russia to give security guarantees, promises it won`t attack its western neighbor   in the future.  Observers say negotiations between the two sides are complex and hard to figure out and some American and NATO officials reportedly have doubts   about how serious Russia is about bringing the conflict to an end. But the war is taking a toll on both sides. There have been numerous attacks on   civilian sites in Ukraine, places like health care facilities and a theater where people were hiding, and thousands of Ukrainian and Russian troops   have reportedly been killed in the fighting. Russia has a larger and more powerful military than Ukraine but analysts say the invasion is not going as Russia hoped it would. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PHIL BLACK, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Russian munitions are still having a devastating impact on civilians in key cities   in Mariupol, in the capital Kyiv, but Russian forces are still making little progress, advancing across Ukrainian territory.  The core U.S. assessment hasn`t changed for much of the war. NED PRICE, STATE DEPARTMENT SPOKESMAN:  The Kremlin`s forces remain stalled in many areas. BLACK:  And experts agree. Three weeks in, Russia is in trouble. UNIDENTIFIIED MALE:  No wars go according to plan. The problem is that Russia`s plan was extremely bad. BLACK:  The key question: why? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I would argue it is a mix of everything. It is a failed or botched concept of operation, with plenty of wrong assumptions about the   very nature of the battlefield. Russia believing in a way that Ukrainians would capitulate or Ukraine would crumble. BLACK:  And experts believe Russia`s failure to secure a quick definitive win has revealed another major flaw in its planning. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Russia`s out of available uh combat forces to put into this fight. BLACK:  Analysts say Russia`s limited forces are now divided between taking territory and laying siege to major cities, reducing their ability to do   both tasks effectively, and that means Russia must be reassessing what victory looks like. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  At this stage, we are still talking about limited gains and goals. There`s simply not enough troops um potentially coming from   Russia or elsewhere to do a sort of massive full-scale ground invasion of Ukraine, keep that territory, hold it and then fight a very costly counter   insurrection war. BLACK:  U.S. officials say they`re seeing some early efforts to boost troop numbers with foreign fighters.  GEN. KENNETH MCKENZIE, COMMANDER, U.S. CENTRAL COMMAND:  We believe that out of Syria, there are perhaps small, small -- very small groups of people   that may be trying to make their way to Ukraine. BLACK:  How the next phase of the war plays out will be significantly determined by Russia`s intentions in Kyiv, trying to take the capital would   likely involve months of bombardment and urban warfare. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  That`s going to be a tough order of business. Those Ukrainians know every single alley, every back room, every road, every   intersection. The Russians are going to find themselves in a hard fight. BLACK:  Slow Russian progress can help Ukrainian forces by allowing them more time to prepare and be resupplied with advanced weapons from allies.   But experts say it could also inspire greater brutality from Russia, a willingness to escalate and destroy in order to compensate for its stalled   invasion. Phil Black, CNN, London. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of the following people was not a Hoosier? Dan Quayle, Neil Armstrong, Michael Jackson or Orville Redenbacher? A Hoosier hails from Indiana and astronaut Neil Armstrong was born in Ohio. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Agriculture is a major industry in Indiana and that makes the Hoosier state a good place for us to illustrate how the war in Ukraine is   having widespread effects on global food prices. Months before the Russian invasion began, inflation was driving up the prices of gasoline in almost every category of groceries. This rise in   costs was at its highest level since 1982. But Russia is one of the world`s biggest exporters of fertilizer. Ukraine and Russia combined export more   than 25 percent of the world`s wheat. So while this can ultimately cause higher prices for groceries, what happens between the war and the store to   cause that? (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Every day, up to twice a day, like clockwork, Josh Everhart makes this trip hauling corn and soy   to the grain elevator in town. But the constant hauling of crops for his four trucks and record gas prices makes even the shortest journey feel like   a slow burn. JOSH EVERHART, EVERHART FARMS:  You don`t want to see the bill. YURKEVICH:  You don`t?  What do --   J. EVERHART:  You look at and you`re like, oh, no. YURKEVICH:  What is it looking like? J. EVERHART:  Well, I mean $1,000 or a thousand gallon tank is $4,000. YURKEVICH:  Gas prices hit a record last week, but are dropping slightly, yet still above four dollars a gallon nationally. And here in Indiana, even   steeper, diesel which fills these tanks, at nearly $5 a gallon. CHRIS EVERHART, EVERHART FARMS:  It`s astronomical, but, you know, it`s part of doing business. YURKEVICH:  Chris Everhart, Josh`s father, says inflation has pushed prices up on just about everything on their farm. But commodity prices have risen,   too. This month wheat rose to its highest price since 2008. C. EVERHART:  I`ve never seen anything like this in a wheat market. YURKEVICH:  For only the second time in 25 years, the Everhart family planted winter wheat, 165 acres of it to try to capitalize on rising wheat   prices. But it`s a risky bet. C. EVERHART:  They`re a lot higher than me than we ever anticipated them being. But so are inputs. YURKEVICH:  That`s fuel, seed, fertilizer and labor, and Russia`s invasion into Ukraine is only pushing prices higher.  PHIL RAMSEY, RAMSEY FARMS:  This is uncharted territory for me. YURKEVICH:  On Phil Ramsey`s farm in Shelbyville, he says he`s spending $500,000 more to plant his crops this year. The only thing softening that   blow, the higher price he`ll hopefully get for his wheat, soy and corn. How much does what is happening in Ukraine impact you here on the farm? RAMSEY:  I`m happy that the prices are going up. I am not happy about the situation because even though they`re a competitor of ours, it`s kind of   like playing sports, you don`t want to see somebody on the other team get hurt. YURKEVICH:  And fertilizer has become their biggest expense, because it`s made from natural gas which has also risen significantly. A key supplier,   Russia, has stopped exporting it. How much more does it take to fill up those bins behind me this year compared to last year? RAMSEY:  Today`s cost is $60,000 more per tank. I have four tanks. That`s $240,000.  YURKEVICH:  And those prices are much slower to come down, compared to the volatile price of crops. C. EVERHART:  We just lose money when that happens. It`s only happened a few times in my farming career, but this one`s totally different than any   that I`ve been through in 43 years. YUKEVICH:  Vanessa Yurkevich, CNN, East Morristown, Indiana. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  To many people, it might have looked like a big old block of rock with some ridges in it. But to this man who just happens to have a deep   interest in prehistoric animals, it`s the tooth of a woolly mammoth.  Justin Blauwet was recently observing a construction site in Iowa when he spotted it it`s inches long and weighs more than 11 pounds, and a   paleontology instructor at the University of Iowa thinks it`s thousands of years old.  Its weight explains why the tooth fairy left it alone, but if you`re enameled with the roots of paleontology on the lookout for bones that   cemented their place and made a dent in history, it`s no mammoth tusk to find the tooth the whole tooth and nothing but the tooth. I`m Carl Azuz and we`ve got love for Loveland High School today. Shout out to our viewers watching from Loveland, Ohio. And thank you for subscribing   and leaving a comment on our YouTube channel. END     

Date: 2022-03-22
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Welcome to CNN 10. I`ve got a little more of my voice back today and I`m happy to use it to bring you objective news. I`m   Carl Azuz. Another step is being taken in the U.S. Supreme Court confirmation process. Late last month, President Joe Biden nominated Federal Judge Ketanji Brown   Jackson to fill an upcoming vacancy on the high court. Associate Justice Stephen Breyer plans to retire in the months ahead. What`s taking place this week is Judge Jackson`s hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee. This is a panel of 22 senators, 11 Democrats and 11   Republicans, who will have the chance to question the nominee this week and try to figure out how she`d rule on some of the most controversial issues   in America. The committee will then hold a vote to decide whether the Senate should confirm or reject the president`s nominee. It can also decide to issue no   recommendation at all. After that, it`s up to a simple majority of 51 out of 100 senators to determine whether the nominee gets a lifetime   appointment to the Supreme Court. Democrats currently control the U.S. Senate. They and the two independents who vote with them hold 50 seats. Republicans also hold seats but if   there`s a tie with the 50 Republicans voting one way, and the 50 Democrats voting the other, the vice president who`s a Democrat casts the tie-  breaking vote. That`s why even though the seats are split 50-50, Democrats are said to be in control of the Senate. U.S. Supreme Court appointments are extremely important to America`s two main political parties. Democrats generally want to appoint liberal   justices, people likely to share their views on controversial issues. Republicans generally want to appoint conservative justices people likely   to share their views on controversial issues. Judge Jackson has previously worked as a public defender something that none of the current Supreme   Court justices has done. And while supporters have said that gives her empathy as a judge, critics have suggested Jackson may be soft on crime at a time when many parts of   America are dealing with higher crime rates. So Judge Jackson will likely be questioned along those lines this week, Democrats hope to hold a vote on   her nomination before April 11, when Congress goes on recess over Easter and Passover. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KARIN CAIFA, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is no stranger to the Senate Judiciary Committee. She`s gone through the Senate   confirmation process three times for previous roles on her resume. But this time will be different. The Supreme Court is a lifetime appointment and today`s opening statements will likely give an indication   of where senators plan to go with their questioning of her. When President Biden nominated the first black woman to the Supreme Court last month, Ketanji Brown Jackson gave a nod to another trailblazer. KETANJI BROWN JACKSON, SUPREME COURT NOMINEE:  Today, I proudly stand on Judge Motley`s shoulders, sharing not only her birthday but also her   steadfast and courageous commitment to equal justice. CAIFA:  Jackson referenced Constance Baker Motley, the first black woman to serve as a federal judge. Now, Jackson is poised to inspire another   generation of black women in law and shape the nation`s highest court. JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  For too long, our government, our courts haven`t looked like America. But some areas of her legal career   could draw scrutiny. It will be a respectful, deep dive into her record, which I think is entirely appropriate for a lifetime appointment. As Jackson has made the rounds on Capitol Hill, GOP senators have indicated her time as a public defender will be one of those areas, including work   representing detainees at the U.S. military prison at Guantanamo Bay and her views on the role of race in the U.S. criminal justice system.   Democrats will emphasize Jackson`s credentials and character at a groundbreaking moment. SEN. DICK DURBIN (D-IL), JUDICIARY COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN:  This is her fourth time before the Senate Judiciary Committee and three previous times she   came through with flying colors. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  If you can envision the amount of land covered by 70,000 football fields, you can get a sense of how much ground in Texas has been burned by   wildfires over the past week. In all, there have been 175 of these blazes, though only a handful of them have caused most of the damage. A complex of   seven fires for instance had burned over 54,000 acres by Monday. That`s according to NBC News. And it was reportedly 30 percent contained, which means roughly a third of it had been blocked off and kept from spreading further. Firefighters are making progress though. They say the big L fire, which was less than miles southwest of Dallas-Fort Worth, that was under control   yesterday morning and people in the nearby city of Lipan were allowed to return to their homes at least two deaths one of them in neighboring   Oklahoma have been blamed on the fires. Rain is in the forecast for some of the affected areas in Texas, which can help firefighters put out the blazes but so are high winds which can cause   the fires to spread. Supplies are pouring into the European nation of Ukraine. We`re talking about everything from drugs and healthcare aid to guns and military   equipment. On Monday, the European Union reached an agreement to send an additional $551 million worth to the war-torn country. That`s only a   fraction of the billions the United States is sending to help supply the Ukrainian military and give relief to Ukrainian civilians. The nation`s president is urging his people to continue their fight against the Russian military which invaded the country almost four weeks ago. And   even as Ukrainian cities increasingly show the scars of war, their people are getting support from distant parts of the planet. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORTER:  From all over the world, boxes of donations, food medicine and clothing, now piled high and being sorted by volunteers in a disused   warehouse at the Polish town of Przemysl (ph) not far from the border of Ukraine. KATARYNA GORZALA, VOLUNTEER MANAGING AID WAREHOUSE:  At the beginning, I was really surprised that so many people want to help. But now, I think I   am used to it, you know, how wonderful people are. REPORTER:  Donations that Ukraine desperately needs, loaded into vans to be taken to the border and then into the war-torn country. The land routes from Europe are now Ukraine`s lifeline. The main roads humanitarian organizations use to bring in their much-needed supplies. And they are far from safe one. Ukrainian driver who didn`t want to be identified sharing some of his drive and telling us of several close shells   (ph). PRANAV SHERRY, PROJECT HOPE:  I think we`ve kind of seen that civilian targets are not off limits in this crisis. And so, that`s a constant issue   in the back of -- in most humanitarians` minds is how do -- how do we deal with the potential risk of directed attack, how do we ensure that our aid   is seen as separate from as we know all of the military aid that`s going into Ukraine. REPORTER:  Last week, Russia delivered a chilling warning. SERGEY LAVROV, RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTER;  Well, we clearly said that any, any cargo moving into Ukrainian territory which we would believe is   carrying weapons would be a fair game. REPORTER:  On Thursday, the United Nations got its first convoy of aid into the heavily damaged town of Sumy, calling it a breakthrough for cities   facing, quote, fatal shortages of food, water and medicine. And as the violence worsens, the need for medical supplies to help the wounded continues to grow, as does the West`s determination to help.   President Joe Biden signing $13.6 billion worth of aid only last week. ROBERT MARDINI, DIRECTOR-GENERAL, INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF THE RED CROSS:  The bottleneck is not funds because there has been a great deal of   solidarity and generosity. So, we now really need to step up the operational response inside the country. REPORTER:  In the knowledge that the longer the conflict lasts and the more the aid is needed, the more dangerous it will become to deliver. (END VIDEOTAPE) BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: A bird of bad moral character was how Ben Franklin described what animal? Bald eagle, carrier pigeon, vulture, or turkey? In a letter to his daughter, the Founding Father criticized the eagle as being too lazy to fish for itself. (END VIDEO CLIP) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Of course, the eagle still became America`s national symbol and now you get to name one -- well, anyone who donates between $10 and $50 can   submit a name. Third graders in California where the eaglet was born will choose the winner from randomly 35 selected names. The chick`s parents are called   Jackie and Shadow, if that gives you an idea of the kind of name officials might be looking for. And while I`m not personally going to enter, I might suggest Chick Hicks, Jessica Beagle, Feather Time, Marty McFly, Nestor Holt, the Beaconator   (ph), Hawkeye, Jeff Prezos (ph), Cragal (ph) Azuz or anything other than Eagle McEagleface although I could eagerly see that one being a winger. I`m Carl Azuz. Today`s shout-out takes us to Ludlow, Kentucky, where we are happy to see our viewers at Ludlow High School. And thanks to everyone for   taking 10 for CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-03-23
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. My name is Carl Azuz. It`s good to see you this Wednesday and we thank you for watching our show. Lockdowns, masks, vaccines and mandates -- there`s been a flood of information and some conflicting studies concerning the steps taken to try   to stop COVID. One thing the restrictions have in common though is that they`re unpopular with the people they affect, and that problem is growing   in the city of Hong Kong. This is a special administrative region of China. People in Hong Kong have had certain freedoms that mainland Chinese have not, but China`s communist   government says it ultimately controls Hong Kong and like that of mainland China, the government of Hong Kong has had very strict COVID rules. Its borders have been mostly closed over the past two years. At one point, people who did travel had to quarantine for three weeks in a hotel room and   people who aren`t vaccinated haven`t been allowed to shop, dine out or go to the gym, the movies or hair salons. For the first two years of the pandemic, Hong Kong had a relatively low number of COVID cases. But this year, despite its restrictions, the number   of cases has exploded, with thousands of people testing positive for the disease. And Hong Kong now has the highest COVID death rate in the world. Critics have said because coronavirus isn`t going away, it`s time for Hong Kong to relax its restrictions and try to recover from the economic   consequences they`ve taken on one of the world`s major financial centers. This week, the city`s government said it would resume allowing flights from   nine countries that had been banned. Chief executive Carrie Lam who leads the city said the ban isn`t needed anymore since Hong Kong`s COVID situation was no better than anywhere else.   Residents of Hong Kong who are coming back from other countries still have to be vaccinated and still have to quarantine but the length of that has   been reduced to one week. Will this be enough? In the first half of this month, immigration data showed that more than 50,000 people left Hong Kong, while seven thousand   came into the city. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Literally driven away, thousands of Hong Kong residents have had enough. Unable to endure life in   a city which has become one of the most isolated in the world. As other countries are largely learning to live with the virus, people here are   fleeing the still oppressive COVID restrictions and they`re leaving by the thousands. Even as they`re on their way out, these residents asked us to hide their identities. KEN, ENTREPRENEUR:  I think Hong Kong used to be one of the best places to be in every single aspect in general. And now, it`s losing a lot of the   edge of this advantage. EDDIE, NURSE:  If we don`t leave, nothing will -- nothing will change. You cannot change the government. STOUT:  They are leaving as the city is in the midst of a fifth wave and quickly running out of hospital beds. New isolation facilities are being   built to house the thousands of positive cases. Hong Kong`s rule that all positive cases must quarantine in a government facility like this has been   pushed to the limit by the rapidly spreading omicron variant. Many in Hong Kong are questioning why they`ve had to live through such harsh restrictions just for things to end like this, like Allen who`s been   running this gym for six years. If the city doesn`t open up soon, he says his business will be dead within weeks. ALLEN, GYM OWNER:  I feel -- I feel lonely and sad when every time I come to this gym without seeing the people here. And I look at the ground   everything just left on the ground, I just miss the old times. STOUT:  Hong Kong`s chief executive Carrie Lam finally seems to be acknowledging the damage her China-led COVID policy has done to the economy   and the people. On Monday, she announced the city will ease some restrictions. While the leadership hopes these changes will bring back the city`s vital force, its tough zero COVID policy and the diminished political freedoms   are throwing doubts on whether they can turn back the tide -- at least to them, it comes all too little too late. Kristie Lu Stout, CNN, Hong Kong. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  A large and dangerous storm system is raking its way across the American south. A meteorologist with the National Weather Service says it`s   expected to weaken as it moves toward Georgia and North Carolina, but it`s already left behind a considerable amount of damage. At least 20 tornadoes were reported across Texas and Oklahoma on Tuesday. Dozens of houses were destroyed, tens of thousands of homes and businesses   lost power. The twisters are only part of the story, strong, straight-line winds, flooding, large sized hail, all of this is possible according to the   National Weather Service. But it`s a tornado that`s been blamed for the death of one woman in Texas and widespread destruction in southern parts of the state. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHAD MYERS, AMS METEOROLOGIST:  Technically, a tornado is just a violent rotating column of air coming out of the bottom of a thunderstorm. But it   takes a lot to get that violently rotating column to come out. SUBTITLE:  CNN Explains: Tornadoes. MYERS:  All you need for a tornado really to form though are thunderstorms and a jet stream. That jet stream`s aloft. It makes the energy. If you have   moisture at the surface, dry air, cold air pushing that moisture up, you can get a tornado to form in any state. Those days where all the ingredients combined, you get the humidity, you get the dry air, you get the jet stream, you get upper energy in the jet   stream. You get winds turning as you go aloft, the higher you go the winds actually change direction. That can cause storms -- those things all cause   storms to exist and get big. Those are the ingredients that cause a big tornado day. So now the EF scale, Enhanced Fujita scale, starts at zero, goes only to five, and anything above 200 miles per hour is considered an EF 5 tornado. If you have a zero, you`re going to lose shingles. A one you may lose a couple of boards on the roof. A two, you`ll lose all the windows and maybe   even a wall. A three, EF 3,you will lose a couple of walls on the outside but there will still be a part of the home standing. And a four, most of the home is gone but you`ll still see the refrigerator, you`ll still see a closet and you`ll still see the bathroom. An EF 5, you   cannot find the house. It`s completely gone. We don`t know how big that Fujita scale will be, how big that tornado will be, literally until after we look at the damage. We have this -- this   almost this triangulation that no other country in the world no region in the world has. We have the Rocky Mountains to our west. We have the Gulf of   Mexico in our south. We have Canada and very cold air masses coming down from the north. All of those things combined make tornado out, typically the plains, Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Nebraska, all the way to Chicago, as far south as the   Southeast, including Georgia and Alabama, that`s basically the new or the bigger tornado alley. The greatest threat of a tornado is being hit by something that the tornado is moving. If you`re outside or if you`re not protected inside, if you get   hit by a 140-mile-per-hour 2x4, you`re going to be killed. So you need to be inside on the lowest level somewhere in the middle of the home away from   windows. When you hear the word "warning" and you hear your county, that`s when you need to take cover. When you hear the word "watch", that means something   might happen today, let`s have a plan. When you hear the word "warning," it`s too late to make a plan. You need to already have the plan. Warning`s   the long word, it`s the bad one. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: London`s new "Crossrail" train network is also known by what name? Chunnel II, Jubilee Underground, The Victoria Line, or The Elizabeth Line? Construction on the Elizabeth Line started in 2009 and continues to date. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  A massive engineering project, once the biggest in Europe is finally wrapping up and when it opens, it`s expected to dramatically reduce the   time it takes to get across the city of London. Crossrail is a $25 billion tube network that stretches for 62 miles. It`s a mix of new tunnels and old   ones, running east to west beneath one of the most densely developed cities on Earth. It`s currently scheduled to open in a limited capacity this May and be fully operational next spring. The project is three years behind schedule   and took $5 billion more to build than originally estimated. But Crossrail is expected to increase London`s train capacity by 10 percent. That might not sound like a ton but it`s the largest expansion of   the city`s transportation network in over 70 years. (MUSIC) There`s this pig in Connecticut named Hamlet. Yeah, he shares an enclosure with another pig named Mary and not with the black bear that recently tried   to get some bacon. But Mary fought back.  At one point, pinning the bear to the wall and Hamlet who`s said to be quite the scaredy pig, got in on the action two   rushing the bear and standing his ground until the intruder realized he`s not eating any pork today. If there`s a problem, they`re all a snout curing it. The root of all fearlessness charging forward during it, they`re more fleet of foot than   pickle when they`re in a pickle nothing fickle about the way they bear up, under the trickle of trouble. They`re on the double if you try to purloin   some ham hocks, ain`t no rift to spare wind in that pan up pork loin, so if you`re making plants for taking bacon when on the lamb, they might just   flourish might get Boris (ph) proving they`re not just ham. I kind of am though. I`m Carl Azuz. Raytown South High School in Raytown, Missouri, gets today`s shout-out, and anyone who wants to mention on our show should leave a comment in our   YouTube Channel. END     

Date: 2022-03-24
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. I`m Carl Azuz. It`s good to see you and we hope your Thursday is going well. U.S. President Joe Biden departed Wednesday for a high-stakes trip to Europe. He`s scheduled to visit Belgium and Poland and the big focus will   be on Russia`s invasion of Ukraine. What will it take to bring the war there to an end?  That`s a question Western leaders don`t know the answer   to.  And when asked what he`d say to them on this trip, the president responded:  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  I`m going to say that to their face. I`m going to say all I have to say. I`m going to save when I get   there. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  His first stop will be in the Belgian capital for a meeting of all 30 leaders of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization or NATO. This is an   alliance of European and North American countries. The United States is a member and the biggest contributor to NATO. It was established in 1949 as a   guard against the Soviet Union. And today, NATO countries are on guard against moves by Russia. What`s made the current conflict such a challenge for NATO is that Ukraine is not a member. That means the NATO countries that border it and the ones   that support it are not required to defend Ukraine from Russia`s attacks.  Russia doesn`t like the fact that several countries to its West have joined NATO in recent years. Ukraine`s government wanted to. That`s a big part of   the reason why Russia says it launched a military operation there.  So what can result from NATO`s meeting this week? Part of it`s symbolic. The in-person gathering intends to show that NATO is unified in opposing   the Russian invasion. NATO is expected to announce new sanctions, penalties on Russia`s economy over the war.  But even though experts say the current ones have hurt Russia, they haven`t stopped its moves in Ukraine. So it`s unclear if additional sanctions will.   The alliance will be sending more weapons and equipment to Ukraine to help in its fight. But one thing NATO countries say they`re not willing to do is   to send their own military forces to fight on Ukraine`s side. They don`t want to be directly involved in combating Russia. After the NATO meeting, President Biden scheduled to visit Poland and discuss the millions of Ukrainian refugees who fled there. The U.S. is   expected to announce more assistance for refugees. Next, today, the same storm system that spawned dozens of reported tornadoes in Texas has taken a toll on Louisiana as it made its way east.   Officials in New Orleans say a twister hit their city on Tuesday night, killing at least one person and injuring several others. But authorities   say accurate weather warnings had prompted a lot of people to take shelter and that probably prevented the outcome from being much worse.  The day before, hundreds of homes had been damaged in Texas and the day after, millions of Americans were under the threat of severe weather as the   system continued east. But Wednesday morning brought us the first real look at the destruction in New Orleans. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DEREK VAN DAM, CNN WEATHER:  Just adjacent to the Lower Ninth Ward east of New Orleans, and we`re getting that first glimpse of daylight and giving us   and revealing to us as well as the residents here the true nature of the devastation that was left behind by this powerful tornado that struck about   7:30 local time last night. Let`s take you to the air, show you what it looks like from above and you too at home can get an idea of just how bad   it was.  In fact, we talked to the Saint Bernard Parish president earlier this morning and he told CNN that when you guys see what happened over   overnight, once that daylight hits the damage scene, you`re going to see that was truly a miracle and he was referencing of course the limited   amount of injuries that occurred with this powerful tornado. And unfortunately, there was a confirmed fatality but that number, of course,   with the devastation that we`re seeing behind us could have been much, much higher. I want to show you the nature of a tornado. As a meteorologist, we study this in depth. We understand damage patterns. And this is very   characteristic of a powerful tornado. It is indiscriminate in what it destroys. Look behind me here, you can see homes completely untouched, virtually untouched by this tornado. And then you can see clearly what is a school   bus behind me that has been flipped. It has traveled at least 100 yards from where it was parked earlier this morning. And then here directly   behind my right shoulder is a home where the roof has been completely lifted off.  We talked to some residents who actually rode out this tornado it was a mother and father of two children that were six and eight years old. They   lived just down the road within this neighborhood of Arabi in Saint Bernard Parish.  They told me that they could actually feel the pressure drop within their ears as the tornado approached. That`s how powerful it was. They took a   mattress from their bed and hid inside their bath to take cover and fortunately, all were okay here. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: What was Salyut 1? The first satellite, the first animal in space, the first moon rover, or the first space station? In April of 1971, the Soviet Union put its Salyut space station into orbit. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Two of the ten people currently aboard the International Space Station stepped outside for a walk yesterday. One of these astronauts works   for NASA, the other is part of the European Space Agency.  Their jaunt was scheduled to last six and a half hours and their mission was to do maintenance and make some upgrades to the aging $150 billion   laboratory. A hose that helps with temperature controls, a power and data cable and the replacement of an outside camera we`re all on their to-do   list.  It was the 248th spacewalk on the ISS and the U.S. government intends to keep it running until when the last visitors are scheduled to leave the   station ahead of its planned crash into the South Pacific. Gasoline prices in the U.S. and beyond have been at or near record levels for weeks. They rose in America throughout, according to U.S. government   statistics, and they spiked even higher after Russia invaded Ukraine, which led to more instability in the oil market. The states of Georgia and Maryland are temporarily suspending their gas taxes in an effort to ease gasoline and diesel prices. Several other states   are thinking about doing the same thing. What exactly factors into the cost of a gallon of gas? (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JON SARLIN, CNN BUSINESS:  What`s in a number? Specifically, that number? The number everyone can`t stop noticing these days. Well, nationally right   now, the price of gas as we`re filming this is $4.30 a gallon.  Here in California where we`re filming this, it`s even higher, the highest in the country. Right now, it`s $5.70 a gallon.  So what goes in a gallon of gas? Let`s break it down.  Here in California, they publish a breakdown of what actually goes in the cost of a gallon of gas. So we`re going to focus on that. And they use   $5.19 a gallon for this. So those are the numbers that we`re going to be using.  First up, taxes. There`s local, state and federal. And there`s a wide variance in state taxes. The median national excise tax is just over 25   cents a gallon, while the lowest is Alaska`s. It`s 9 cents. But here in California, it`s 51 cents a gallon. Those costs go to things like   maintaining roads and infrastructure.  Then you have other local state taxes and fees. That adds on another 13 cents. And then there`s the national gas tax. That adds 8.4 cents per   gallon. And this number actually hasn`t changed in decades. So across state houses and federal government, people are calling for a gas tax holiday, to help keep the price of gas lower. But others are arguing   that no, this is too important a revenue source to cut. Then and on 36 cents for the distribution, marketing and profits of the gas stations. That money goes towards things like rent, wages, utilities, the   cost of the pump, insurance, advertising and then the gas station`s profit. All that in 36 cents. Then there`s the cost of refining the gas. That adds one dollar and 12 cents per gallon. That includes refining the gas, also transporting it, and   the profits for those companies. Then we get to the biggest piece of the pie, the cost of crude oil. Right now, that adds 2.87 per gallon. Now this is the largest and most volatile   part of what makes up a gallon of gas. When you see the price of gas going up, you can count on the cost of crude oil having just gone up as well.  All of those factors go into what you pay at the pump. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  One fun thing about working on an explainer show is that we get to explain stuff like this. On the left, inside the apparatus being towed is   Dutch speed skater Kjeld Nuis. He held the record for fastest speed skated on natural ice that was just over miles per hour, but he wanted to beat   that.  And with the help of the giant windshield you see which kept the breeze from being a factor, Nas recently clocked a new record of 64 miles per hour   on skates. Anyone who lives on the cutting edge is going to lace up and toe pick the place to be a trail bladder or blade runner by carving out time to put   boots on the ice. But why break your own record? Cause skaters can escape. That puts us on ice.  Prattville High School gets today`s shout out. Thank you to our viewers in Prattville, Alabama, for subscribing and leaving a comment on our YouTube   channel.  I`m Carl Azuz for CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-03-25
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  We have made it to Friday. Awesome. I`m Carl Azuz. I`m your anchor here at CNN. And we start today in the European nation of Belgium. At a news conference yesterday at the NATO headquarters in Brussels, U.S. President Joe Biden   said America had sent $2 billion worth of military equipment to help Ukrainian forces fight Russia. He announced the U.S. would spend more than   a billion dollars on humanitarian aid for Ukrainian civilians and hundreds of millions on pro-democracy and human rights efforts in Ukraine and other   nations. Analysts say the conflict in Ukraine has created the worst refugee crisis in Europe since World War II. The United Nations estimates that three and a   half million Ukrainians have left their country mostly for other European nations, though more than 270,000 are believed to have gone into Russia.   President Biden said yesterday that America would allow 100,000 Ukrainians to move to the United States. The U.S. is a member and the biggest contributor to the NATO alliance of North American and European countries, and though Ukraine is not a member   of that alliance, the U.S. president said it was standing together in opposing Russia`s invasion. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  Putin was banking on NATO being split. My early conversation with him in December in early January, it was   clear to me he didn`t think we could sustain this cohesion. NATO has never, never been more united than it is today. Putin is getting exactly the   opposite what he intended to have as a consequence of going into Ukraine. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  The Russian government said yesterday that NATO`s decision to support Ukraine proves the alliance wants the conflict there to continue   and it said the weapons that NATO is sending to Ukraine`s military are, quote, reaping terrible results. Meantime, Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelenskyy asked NATO for more weapons, including tanks, defenses against air attacks and fighter jets.   But that`s one thing the U.S. has resisted sending to Ukraine. It`s concerned that Russia would see the fighter jets as going too far, that   they`d be viewed as an American expansion of the conflict. At this point, there`s no end in sight to it. Extensive destruction can be seen in Ukrainian cities and both Ukraine and Russia have lost thousands of   troops in the war. NATO leaders are trying to figure out what to do if Russia changes its tactics and uses more deadly weapons like chemical or   nuclear weapons. President Biden said America would respond if Russia made a chemical attack, but that how the U.S. responds would depend on how the weapons were   used. In the past, Russia has promised not to make or use chemical arms, and officials say there`s no evidence they`ve been used in this conflict. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these animals is not considered endangered? Snow leopard, slender-snouted crocodile, basking shark or giant otter? The International Union for the Conservation of Nature classifies all these animals as endangered, except the snow leopard. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  The snow leopard used to be on the IUCN`s red list of endangered species, and the animal is still considered vulnerable. Encyclopedia   Britannica says there are between 2,500 and 10,000 snow leopards left in the wild, though other estimates put the number much lower. Their   population is reportedly decreasing though and there are several possible reasons why. One is that they may be hunted for their use in traditional Chinese medicine. Disease may play a factor, as might loss of their natural   habitat. But snow leopards are also known to attack the livestock of nearby farmers. So, a conservationist is taking action to protect their livelihood   while also protecting the snow leopards themselves. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SHAFQAT HUSSAIN, PROFESSOR OF ANTHROPOLOGY, TRINITY COLLEGE, CONNECTICUT:  It is really a spectacular area of the world and especially in winter. It`s   so beautiful. The sense of remoteness the sense of isolation is very acute and when you go further higher up or deeper into the heart of the   mountains, there is a very good chance that a snow leopard might walk right in front of me. The first time I heard a snow leopard roar, I still remember a long time ago. Suddenly, I heard this roaring call. I mean, if anything it was just   sheer wildness. My name is Shafqat Hussain. I`m a professor of anthropology at Trinity College in Hartford, Connecticut. I work on a snow leopard conservation   project in northern Pakistan that has been running for the last 20 years. I have never seen a snow leopard in the wild. You`re dealing with an animal that is very, very elusive and its habitat is very difficult to study. Many   times, I have told my colleagues when you know we are setting up camera traps or doing surveys. That I`m sure that a snow leopard is watching me   from somewhere up there. The snow leopards are incessant communicators. I wonder what they would do if they had, you know, all this new social media technology, right, because   just like we human beings, we are always connecting. And you can see the snow leopard you know doing the same by leaving all these marks in their   territory, whether it`s a spray or leaving their cheek hair, as if these cats are trying to communicate with other cats in this big, vast and empty   landscape. We have been working in close to 25 villages in the region of Baltistan. Ninety-five percent of these people keep livestock and they also have small   agricultural fields and every now and then, their livestock gets attacked by predators such as snow leopard that really brings a huge economic loss   for these people. So, then they retaliate by attacking and killing these predators. We have set up close to 20 small micro insurance programs, where local people get compensated for their losses. The other strategy is to construct   predator-proof corrals because that is very impactful in the long run-in reducing mortality from snow leopard attacks. We are also implementing a   conservation education program, unless we get the human equation side right. It`s very difficult to sustain any conservation effort in the long   run. We think that in our area we can claim that snow rapid population is stable. There`s also a threat from climate change and global warming with   receding ice line but I think snow leopards will definitely be around for a long, long time. I hope that in the years to come, snow leopard sighting   will become an everyday phenomenon. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Doug was thought to be a potato. It smelled like a potato. It tasted like a potato. It didn`t really look like a potato. And sadly, for the New   Zealand couple that dug up Doug, it`s not a potato. After finding Doug in their garden, they thought they`d stumbled across a record-sized spud. Doug weighed 17.4 pounds. But after extensive research   and DNA analysis, experts concluded that Doug is a tuber of a type of gourd that might have come from a choko. Even if they were grounded, they weren`t potatotally disappointed they still had something tuber, and they could always put on their nightshades   and starch looking to spud the roots of another side for their vegetable. All they got to do at this point is to keep their eyes peeled. All right. I`m Carl Azuz. Today`s shout-out takes us to Boiling Springs, Pennsylvania, where we are happy to see you, the students of Boiling Springs High School.   We hope all y`all have a great weekend. END 

Date: 2022-03-28
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  As the month of March winds down, we`re happy you`re spending some time with us. I`m Carl Azuz. U.S. president Joe Biden has returned to the White House after a high- stakes trip to Europe. In Belgium, he met with America`s NATO allies and discussed the war in Ukraine. One announcement made there was that   officials were looking at ways to reduce Europe`s dependence on Russian oil and gas. On the flight home, President Biden said the meeting of European   and North American leaders was unlikely to cause Russia to withdraw from Ukraine but that the most important thing was for NATO to stay unified in   opposing Russia`s invasion. After the NATO meeting, the U.S. leader made a stop in Poland and delivered a major speech there. It was during that address that President Biden made   an off-the-cuff statement that caused controversy. He said that Russian President Vladimir Putin, quote, cannot remain in power.  Why is that significant? For one thing, it was the first time someone in the White House publicly suggested that Russia needed a different leader.   For weeks, the Biden administration has said regime change -- the replacement of the Russian president -- was not part of U.S. strategy.  Shortly after the American leader`s statement, U.S. officials walked it back. They said President Biden didn`t mean that President Putin should be   removed from power in Russia but that he shouldn`t be allowed to use that power over Russia`s neighbors. They also said the phrase was not in   President Biden`s prepared speech. A spokesman for the Russian President said his country`s leadership is, quote, not to be decided by Mr. Biden. It   should only be a choice of the Russian people. Here`s how the controversial remark was delivered along with a look at some other things President Biden said during his speech at a Polish stadium on   Saturday. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  For God`s sake, this man cannot remain in power. PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  President Biden delivering a forceful and dramatic condemnation of Vladimir   Putin. BIDEN:  A dictator bent on rebuilding an empire will never erase the people`s love for liberty. MATTINGLY:  The White House later clarifying Biden was not calling for regime change but an unmistakable message. BIDEN:  Ukraine will never be a victory for Russia as Biden delivered a clarion call to western democracies at the moment of the highest stakes,   drawing parallels to Eastern Europe`s emergence from Soviet rule. It was a long painful slog fought over not days and months but years and decades,   but we emerged anew in the great battle for freedom, a battle between democracy and autocracy, between liberty and repression. MATTINGLY:  The speech a capstone of a European swing defined by unity in the face of searing images of disaster just a border away. Ukraine and his   people are in the front lines fighting to save their nation and their brave resistance is part of a larger fight for an essential democratic principles   that unite all free people. BIDEN:  Biden`s remarks coming just hours after new Russian strikes in Lviv, just 40 miles from the Polish border. And its Biden`s caustic view of   the Russian president grows even darker. REPORTER:  You`re dealing every day with Vladimir Putin. I mean, look at what he`s done to these people. What does it make you think? BIDEN:  He`s a butcher. MATTINGLY:  And his warnings to the Russian leader of NATO`s commitment grows even sharper. BIDEN:  Don`t even think about moving on one single inch of NATO territory. We have sacred obligation we have a sacred obligation under article to   defend each and every inch of NATO territory for the full force of our collective power. MATTINGLY:  In the final day of an urgent and hastily arranged trip to Europe that brought Biden face to face with dozens of Western leaders, he   sat down with Polish President Duda pledging close ties for a NATO country housing 10,500 U.S. troops. BIDEN:  We do acknowledge that Poland is taking on a significant responsibility that I don`t think should just be Poland. It should be the   whole world, all of NATO`s responsibility. MATTINGLY:  And more than 2 million Ukrainian refugees, Biden meeting some first hand. BIDEN:  Can I hug you? You`re so big.  You`re all brave, brave, brave MATTINGLY:  And just hours after a surprise meeting with the Ukrainian foreign and defense ministers --   DMYTRO KULEBA, UKRAINIAN FOREIGN MINISTER:  The good thing is that since the beginning of the war, I learned how to sleep under any conditions. MATTINGLY:  A face-to-face sit-down where Biden pledged even more U.S. support, a welcome commitment for a country under siege and Western   democracies facing a challenge now reshaping European power dynamics.  BIDEN:  It will not be easy. There will be cost, but it`s a price we have to pay. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these events occurred in 1929? The first Academy Awards, the Empire State Building opened, Fleming discovered penicillin, or the first transatlantic flight was made? It was in 1929 that the first Academy Awards were held in Hollywood, California. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Last night`s award show was the 94th in the Academy`s history. And with the advancement of time and technology, the event at the Dolby Theater   looked a lot different than the 1929 dinner party at the Roosevelt Hotel. The prestigious awards for merit in film have also been characterized as   Hollywood celebrating itself.  They`ve lost tens of millions of viewers since 1998 when a record 55 million people watched. We don`t have numbers from this year`s event yet,   but some industry experts say they`ll never again approach their record. Why? (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) FRANK PALLOTTA, CNN MEDIA REPORTER:  The Academy Awards were for decades Hollywood`s biggest night, bringing together the glitz, glamour, and best   films the industry had to offer. It was also one of the most watched events on TV every year, usually only being beat out by big time sporting events   like the Super Bowl.  That`s changed lately as the show has seen record low ratings, going from an historic high of 55 million viewers in 1998 to an historic low of less   than 10 million viewers in 2021. KATE WINSLET, ACTRESS:  What? PALLOTTA:  This has caused the Academy to take some drastic and very criticized steps to make the show more watchable.  In 2022, the Oscars try to redefine itself in two ways, the first is by asking Twitter users to vote for their favorite film. The winner will get   recognition of some sort on the show, and more notably cutting some major categories like score and editing from the main telecast.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Do pardon me. PALLOTTA:  A move that`s not been well-received in Hollywood. TIM GRAY, AWARDS EDITOR, VARIETY:  I think it`s just the wrong decision and these are just, you know, what they used to call the little people, the   cinematographers, the editors, because the TV audience doesn`t know most of those people. It`s just a list of names. I think it was the wrong decision   because it diminishes those people. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I think so. PALLOTTA:  But the Oscars changing up its format is nothing new. After the "Dark Knight" failed to be nominated for best picture in 2009, the Academy   expanded its best pitcher nominations from five to 10 in hopes of bringing in more popular fare.  Then in 2018, the Oscars announced a brand new award, the Academy Award for Outstanding Achievement in popular film, whatever that means. It was ultimately scrapped after its announcement wasn`t received well.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This new best popular picture is the worst idea they`ve ever had. PALLOTTA:  Why the Academy goes through all this trouble to get people to watch makes sense. It`s big business for the show`s network, ABC.  Despite falling ratings, ABC still got advertisers to pay nearly $2 million a spot in 2021, and ABC`s relationship with the award show isn`t going   anywhere anytime soon since it renewed its contract with the Academy through 20218.  But can anything truly restore the Oscars to its former popularity? GRAY:  They will never get to the point with where they used to be. The audience has changed on that. And so, I think a lot of people in the   Academy and at ABC are waiting to return to those numbers and it`s not going to happen. I -- you know, they`re never going to get those numbers   again. PALLOTTA:  And the Oscars have to evolve in order to stay relevant. But it still has to find a way to stay the Oscars or to lose what`s made it   special over the last century. GRAY:  I kind of like the Oscars because they`re a little microcosm of life. It`s like, you know, even if you don`t like the best picture winner,   it kind of reflects what`s going on in society. But I still think the name recognition Oscar, it still means a lot to a lot of people around the   world. So I don`t think the Academy will let it die, but I don`t think the fans, the hardcore fans will let it die either. But the more casual fans,   they may fade away. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Natural goat lawn mowers it`s really not a bad idea. About 400 ruminants have gotten jobs in the city of Sacramento, California. Their   mission: to clear out any unwanted overgrowth in the area.  This is an environmentally friendly way to spruce up landscaping cut down as much as two acres of brush a day and to reduce the fuel that wildfires   use to spread. And while you might not want to frolic barefoot through the area afterward, we`re sure those willing to fore-goat traditional clearing   will be goating others into the goaten opportunity to bleep back over goats by goating for the goal of using cashmere mammals, unlikely to fleece the   area before goating it all cleared out. So it`s good day goat y`all.  I`m Carl Azuz.  Frederick is a village in Wisconsin where we heard from Frederick High School. Thank you for your comment and subscription to our YouTube channel. END     

Date: 2022-03-29
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Sun, sand and syrup separately sum up today`s show. I`m Carl Azuz, and we`re thankful you`re watching. One hundred years ago, solar weather was a lot less relevant than it is today flares and ejections from our nearest star didn`t have any impact on   satellites, global positioning systems, astronauts, mainly because none of those things existed. But now, these events could potentially disrupt all   that, plus airlines and the power grid, and that`s part of the reason why scientists from the United States and the European Union have sent a pair   of probes to study the sun. The American spacecraft is NASA`s Parker solar probe. It`s named for astrophysicist Eugene N. Parker who predicted the existence of solar wind   in the 1950s and most scientists then didn`t believe him, according to "The New York Times". The Parker solar probe is on a $1.5 billion mission and will fly through the sun`s atmosphere. That spacecraft is working with another from the   European Space Agency. That one`s called the Solar Orbiter. It`s named for its mission to orbit the sun. This probe also cost one and a half billion dollars. The money coming from both Europe and the U.S., and both of these spacecrafts have some serious   heat shields to withstand extreme temperatures that the Earth`s atmosphere and distance from the sun protect us from. Space.com says the Parker probe`s shield will work to keep its instruments at a temperature of about 85 degrees Fahrenheit, though the probe itself   will face measurements of thousands of degrees higher. Here`s Rachel Crane on how the two probes can work together. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RACHEL CRANE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Here are some of the most unprecedented and informative images of the sun ever taken. They`re made   possible by these two machines: NASA`s Parker solar probe and the European space agency`s Solar Orbiter. Parker was sent up by NASA in August of 2018, with Solar Orbiter following it in February 2022. Parker plans to make 24 passes around the sun before   its mission ends in 2025. Solar Orbiter will be making close approaches to the sun every six months through at least 2030. They`ve been sent to investigate major questions about the star at the center of our solar system, what drives its 11-year magnetic cycle, what   heats its corona, where do solar winds come from. Answers to these questions could give us a better understanding of how the sun affects space   weather and to better protect satellites that we rely on for everyday activities here on Earth. So why are there two separate probes launched by two different space agencies to observe the same sun? It`s because they have complementary   capabilities and viewpoints of the sun that help broaden the information they collect. For example, cameras can`t survive looking directly at the   sun from as close as Parker will be. So, the solar orbiter will capture images of the sun and collect context information from what Parker   observes. Solar Orbiter plans on getting as close as 25 million miles from the sun, that`s under a third of the Earth`s average distance from the sun. Parker will get seven times closer than the record holder for a solar pass, flying into the sun`s corona within 3.8 million miles of its surface. If   the sun can make you too hot here on earth, imagine being that close to it. Parker has been specifically designed to withstand temperatures approaching   2,500 degrees Fahrenheit. To protect itself Parker has been fitted with a 4.5-inch-thick carbon composite shield. Solar Orbiter traveling farther away only has to withstand temperatures over 930 degrees Fahrenheit, but it`s fitted with cameras which need to   look at the sun, so Solar Orbiter`s heat shield actually has holes drilled into it to allow light in for observation. Parker`s orbit takes it through the sun`s corona to sample where corona plasma detaches to become solar wind. Parker carries with it four   instruments to study magnetic fields, plasma and energetic particles, and to image the solar wind and how it accelerates. Solar Orbiter isn`t flying   in a fixed orbit, but it`s in resonance with Venus, using the planet`s gravitational pull every few passes to attempt to gradually shift its orbit   to about degrees above the solar equator, delivering never-before-seen views of the sun`s polar regions. And why are these probes doing this now, because the sun is heading towards what`s known as solar maximum which is the peak of solar activity every 11   years. The next peak is predicted to occur in July, so this is their best opportunity to learn as much about the sun and how it relates to us here on   Earth until 2036. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these American traditions started in 1938? Fireworks on July 4, Memorial Day parades, spring break, or Easter egg hunts? Spring break`s origins lie in a trip a New York swim team took to Florida in 1938. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZX:  Early next month, we should get a picture of how much higher prices were this March as compared with a year ago. For February, inflation was   7.9 percent higher than it was in February 2021, and that was its biggest increase in 40 years. But it`s not just gas and groceries, the cost of   renting a place to live was 17 percent higher in February than it was last year at that time. That`s according to realtor.com, and it means rent costs   are at their highest level ever. With spring break getting underway, inflations in the prices of tickets for travel and events. It`s on menus and in activities. But there`s so much   pent-up demand to get out of the house following the lockdowns and restrictions related to COVID-19. How were Americans balancing inflation and entertainment? (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We were just going to come and blow it out. (CHEERS) NATASHA CHEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  For families who haven`t traveled much in the last two to three years --   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It`s given me time to save up and to get organized and budgeted. CHEN:  -- they`re determined to take a trip in spite of the sticker shock. From here in California where tourists are paying some of the highest gas prices in the nation, to higher airfares due to unprecedented demand, to   higher hotel rates like here in Miami Beach where the average price is more than $500 a night. On the travel website Kayak, recent searches show the   average price of domestic flights to Panama City, Florida, for example, is $494. In March of 2019, that would have averaged just over $300. The Kibara (ph) family flew from Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to Los Angeles. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Once we got out here, we realized that things are very expensive right now. CHEN:  They decided against a rental car. The average rental car in the U.S. according to Kayak averages $76 a day, more than $20 higher than two   years ago. But even without a rental car --   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We`re actually spending more money in Uber than we are in flying out here. CHEN:  That`s likely because regular gas is on average more than four dollars a gallon this month, the highest of any month in history, up from   $2.51 in March of 2019. That`s affecting the owner of StarLine Tours who says the company typically spends $100 a day on fuel for these buses and now they`re spending $220   every day. KAMI FARHADI, CHAIRMAN, STARLINE TOURS:  We`ve still maintained our prices at the moment, but we`re going to have to look at going to full summer   pricing right now rather than waiting until the summer. CHEN:  Kayak shows hotel rates averaging about $300 per night, up nearly $70 since March of 2019, even theme parks will cost you more from paid   express lines to pricier food. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It is adding up. It`s expensive to just eat, because these boys don`t -- they play around, they don`t play around, they`re   hungry all the time. ELAINE EDWARDS, TRAVEL AGENT:  People are accepting it and they`re going. Now, maybe they`re making adjustments along the way. CHEN:  While the cheapest single day Disney tickets stayed the same price since 2019, there are now fewer days priced at value season. Meanwhile a discount tracking website Mouse Savers shows the most expensive types of tickets at Disneyland and Disney World during the busiest season   jumped 11 or 12 percent from two years ago. Wherever they go, however much it costs, some families say they just need to get out of the house now and   they`ll scale back later. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I think we will probably make a smaller summer vacation because we made a big spring break vacation. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Since the invention of the soft drink, which probably dates back to Schweppes in the 1780s, people and companies have been tinkering with   different flavors. This one is going to sound either really good or really nasty. A cola company and a pancake company have teamed up to produce Pepsi   maple syrup. IHOP is involved in the project. Yes, it`s going to be sweet, doubtful it`s going to be all natural. Either way it`s not going to be in stores at least at first. Two thousand winners   of an online sweepstakes will get their very own six-pack. Sometimes companies get Schwepped up in possibilities and Sprites in all the sugar they can. Not everyone`s a fan to that and not all of them have   the moxie to step 7-Up and make something Fresca. But before someone barks at them and thinks she has to go to the doctor to pepper him with health   questions, remember soft drinks are all big business. I`m Carl Azuz. Colchester is a town in Vermont and it`s there we heard from Colchester High School. Let`s go Lakers. Our YouTube channel is the only place to request a shout out. END    

Date: 2022-03-30
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:   Are steps being taken that could lead to peace in Ukraine? That is our first topic on today`s show and we`re glad to have   you watching. I`m Carl Azuz. On Tuesday, after peace talks between Russian and Ukrainian government officials, Russia said it would move some of its troops and equipment away   from the Ukrainian capital and another area of northern Ukraine and, quote, drastically reduce hostilities in these two areas. American officials said   this signaled a major change in Russian strategy after it launched what it called a special military operation in Ukraine on February 24th. Russian officials indicated the decision was influenced by promises from Ukraine that it would remain a neutral country in the future and not try to   get or develop nuclear weapons. There were other developments in the two nations peace talks, one concerned reports of a possible future meeting   between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelenskyy, though that is not on the schedule right now. Fighting between the two sides reportedly continued last night in Ukraine, including areas near the capital, and American officials say Russia`s   planned pullback in two northern parts of the country doesn`t mean it`s ending its invasion. It may just be moving these forces to fight in other   locations. U.S. officials say they`re more focused on what Russia does than what it says. The Russian announcement initially triggered a drop in oil prices on Tuesday. Investors became less concerned that an ongoing war would reduce   oil supplies. Another factor in lower oil prices is recent events in Shanghai, China. It`s possible that new COVID-related lockdowns there could   reduce China`s demand for oil energy. Here`s Kristie Lu Stout. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  It`s day two of a sweeping lockdown in Shanghai, China`s financial capital and mega city that`s home to million   people. Now, this is a two-stage lockdown that was launched so millions of residents could undergo mandatory mass testing. On Monday, half of the city went to lockdown for four days. On Friday, the second half will undergo the same process. And in this drone video, you   will see the area of Shanghai called Pudong. That`s the area that`s currently under lockdown and you`ll also see the bridge that crosses the   Huangpu River which separates these two lockdown zones. During the testing period some residents who are waiting testing will not be allowed to leave their homes we also know that public transport is   suspended in lockdown areas and work at factories and firms will also be suspended. Now, previously, authorities said that there was no need there wouldn`t be a lockdown in Shanghai, but the lockdown is underway which is testing the   patients of the residents there. It`s also a test of China`s zero COVID policy. It is a policy that has stemmed outbreaks, that has saved lives,   but has come at a cost in particular an economic cost. I want you to read this. This is from Larry Hu of Marcquarie Bank. He writes this: China should be able to contain the virus in the next few   weeks as lockdown is effective but COVID does pose substantial growth risk in the rest of this year as lockdown is very costly, unquote. I should point out that Shanghai is China`s commercial center many multinational companies have factories there. In fact, it`s home to more   than 830 regional headquarters. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: What planet is closest to earth when it passes by? Mercury, Venus, Mars or Jupiter? It might not be the closest on average, but Venus`s orbit brings it closer to earth than any other planet. Over the next decade we may be able to send people to mars but should we there are numerous downsides to the exploration and possible colonization   of the Red Planet. Earth and Mars are only closely aligned once every two years. Even then, it takes about nine months to get there. Space travel is   expensive and dangerous, especially with people aboard. Some researchers say it wouldn`t be worth the money or risk, but the possibility is closer   than ever. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RACHEL CRANE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  SpaceX founder Elon Musk is worried about the future of humanity on Earth. His backup plan, the   Starship. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Captain, you let them see our ship. CRANE:  No, not that starship. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Jump. CRANE:  Not that one either. This starship. He wants to use that to first send humans back to the moon and then to settle a self-sustaining city on Mars. SpaceX says it`s the most powerful rocket ever created, surpassing Saturn V, which landed humans on the lunar surface. Standing at 394 feet tall and   30 feet in diameter, SpaceX says starship will be able to carry over a hundred metric tons into earth orbit. ELON MUSK, SPACEX FOUNDER:  Pretty epic. LUCY BERTHOUD, PROFESSOR OF SPACE ENGINEERING, UNIVERSITY OF BRISTOL:  The starship is formed of two parts. CRANE:  Professor Lucy Berthoud teaches space engineering at the University of Bristol. BERTHOUD:  There`s a bottom bit which is a super heavy booster which is like a rocket, and then the top bit which is carries the cargo or the   payload or the people. And those two together are also called the Starship. CRANE:  The Starship is powered by over raptor engines. Once in orbit the super heavy booster would separate from Starship and return to Earth, to be   caught midair by a large pair of robotic arms. MUSK:  The booster actually, even though it`s gigantic, will come back in about six minutes. The propellant pumps are designed to fill the rocket in   about half an hour. CRANE:  Starship would link with a rocket in low earth orbit to supply it with more propellant and then continue on its mission. SpaceX says that   could include sending as many as a hundred human passengers to Mars, sending cargo to the Red Planet or putting satellites into orbit. MUSK:  The ship is probably reusable about every six to eight hours. That`s why we say sort of three times a day for the ship. CRANE:  After a few high-altitude failures, SpaceX was able to land Starship, you know, the top part. In May of 2021, it successfully touched   down from about six miles above earth without bursting into flames. Despite arguing the industry is lagging behind and having missed a few deadlines himself, Musk has said he thinks SpaceX can get humans to Mars by   2026. BERTHOUD:  I do think is really ambitious. He has said worst case, 10 years, I think that`s much more doable. But we do need to ensure the safety   of the people who are going to Mars. MUSK:  Now you can only go to Mars every two years, and I think maybe roughly you need about a million tons on Mars to have a self-sustaining   city. The Holy Grail breakthrough that`s needed is a rapid and completely reusable rocket system. BERTHOUD:  This is absolutely critical for going to Mars. You`re going to need to take lots of experimental materials. You`re going to need to take   lots of food with you and also some water for all your inhabitants. CRANE:  So single-use rockets won`t cut it. BILL NYE, CEO, THE PLANETARY SOCIETY:  Elon Musk came to the planetary science and engineering community, he said, I want to go to Mars, so what   do I need to do? CRANE:  That`s right. We talked to Bill Nye. NYE:  And everybody told him, you`ve got to lower the cost of getting to low earth orbit. They have achieved it. SpaceX is now absolutely the most   reliable, lowest cost vehicle going right now. CRANE:  Nye is staunchly in favor of exploration but he has concerns about settling humans on Mars, at least right away. NYE:  It`s really amazing how hostile it is. It looks like places on Earth, but it`s not. I mean there`s nothing to breathe and it`s fantastically   cold. Well, you just live in this dome. Okay, then we`re going to go outside. What are you going to do? You`re going to put on a spacesuit to go outside,   which is just another dome. CRANE:  Nye doesn`t want the push to live on mars to ruin our chance to learn about life on Mars. NYE:  It`s very reasonable to me that there`s something alive on M right now, and I`m talking about a microbe, something that lives under thin   layers of rock. And we`d go there and we`d set up a settlement and screw it up. I would like us to investigate that thoroughly before we go setting up   camp and throwing Styrofoam cups all over the ground. If you found evidence of life, it would change the course of history. CRANE:  The experts agree that prudent settlement of mars could contain lessons for life back on Earth. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  For 10 out of 10, if art is in the eye of the beholder, behold this. Might just look like a blue and gold circle of spots, but one of the   artists is Spot the famous or infamous robot dog. And the other, a human who prompted Spot to create the unique work is a Polish-American artist.   She titled it "Sunrise March," and when the work was put up for auction, it raised $40,000 that will be used to benefit Ukrainian refugees. We don`t need to brush up on color theory or canvas a panel to see the pointillism. You just clear the plein air, let down your avant-garde, see   beyond the vanishing point and understand what`s representational. The abstract here is that a con-art-seur would say it hits the spot on the dot. I`m Carl Azuz. Mountaineer High School in Morgantown, West Virginia, knows how to get a shout out. Thank you for subscribing and leaving a comment on   our YouTube channel. That puts the finishing touches on today`s CNN 10. END 

Date: 2022-03-31
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. I`m Carl Azuz. And we`re looking up on today`s show explaining everything from a no-fly zone, to the sky-high cost   of rent, to the flight of a wayward owl. We begin with money. The U.S. government is committing more of it in support of Ukraine and its continued fight against an invasion by   neighboring Russia. Despite what we told you yesterday about hope that Russia might be pulling back from some areas and that there might be a   meeting in the works between Russian and Ukrainian leaders, the battle has not let up. In a Ukrainian city where Russia said it would drastically reduce its military activity, the mayor said it was under, quote, colossal attack on   Wednesday. Earlier this month, U.S. President Joe Biden signed an emergency spending package for Ukraine worth $13.6 billion. Part of this will send more   weapons to the Eastern European country, part of it supports more U.S. troops in the region, but not in Ukraine itself. Part of it goes to helping   Ukrainian civilians and refugees. In the days after signing that package into law, President Biden committed hundreds of millions in additional military assistance to Ukraine. And   during a phone call yesterday with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, the American leader said another $500 million was on the way. But there are limits to what the Biden administration and America`s allies in Europe are willing to do. One of them concerns fighter jets. Ukraine has   repeatedly requested more of them to target Russian forces from the air. But Russia has said that the U.S. and its allies would become participants   in the war if they gave jets to Ukraine, so they`ve so far refused to do that. It`s a similar situation concerning Ukraine`s calls for a no-fly zone. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PRES. VOLODYMYR ZELENKSYY, UKRAINE (translated):  Close the sky over Ukraine. We`re talking about a no-fly zone. To close the sky above our country. REPORTER:  Since the start of Russia`s invasion of Ukraine, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has called on Western governments to close the skies   and enforce a no-fly zone over the country. A no-fly zone would put an end to Russia`s superior air power, prevent Russian planes from bombarding   Ukrainian cities and let civilians flee the conflict more safely. They`ve previously been used in Iraq, Bosnia and Libya. But what is a no-fly zone and how does it work? JUSTIN BRONK, AIRPOWER & MILITARY TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH FELLOW, RUSI:  A no- fly zone is typically a U.N.-mandated aerial peacekeeping operation where a multinational force mounts combat air patrols and surveillance over a   country and prevents either side from flying any aircraft. The most basic requirements would be fighter aircraft based at air bases near to but not   in the country in question. REPORTER:  But these fighter jets would need to be supported by refueling tankers. BRONK:  Fighter aircraft typically have about an hour to an hour and a half of fuel. They`ll typically be uncapped for two or three hours at a time, so   they will require a tanking stop on the way over there. They will require tanking while they`re on cap and then tanker to take them back over. REPORTER:  To monitor aircraft in a no-fly zone, you need another kind of plane called Airborne Warning and Control System Aircraft or AWACS. BRONK:  An AWACS is the equivalent of turning on a big ceiling light. It enables you to detect and then go and interdict any aircraft attempting to   violate the no-fly zone. But, of course, those tankers and AWACS also then need to be protected as do the fighters themselves. REPORTER:  This complex and expensive operation is not something that every military is able to provide. BRONK:  Only the United States has the military capacity to do this. We should be quite clear about what people are asking when they ask for a no-  fly zone. What they`re asking is for America to militarily secure the skies over Ukraine, and others to join them along the way. LLOYD AUSTIN, U.S. SECRETARY OF DEFENSE:  A no-fly zone means that you`re in a -- in a conflict with Russia. So, from a U.S. perspective, we`re --   again, our position remains that we`re not going to do that. BRONK:  The West is hesitant to introduce a no-fly zone for a couple of reasons. Primarily, of course, the danger of escalation in terms of Russia   escalating quickly to tactical nuclear weapons probably in Ukraine to force the west to back off, but also, of course, for political reasons, the   response to uh internationally to Russia`s invasion of Ukraine has been extremely unified. REPORTER:  That unity would likely be shattered if there was any serious attempt to impose a no-fly zone potentially leading to direct combat   between NATO and Russian forces. In fact, a no-fly zone could even play into President Vladimir Putin`s narrative. BRONK:  It would aid the Russians in this sort of post-facto justification that they`ve been trying to put in place for their invasion, that it was in   response to a potential NATO intervention in Ukraine. REPORTER:  So, while it`s unlikely to happen, there are reasons why President Zelenskyy and his government keep pushing for a no-fly zone. BRONK:  They feel that the West needs to be pressured, continually to do more, even if they understand that a no-fly zone is very unlikely. Western   countries will feel obligated to do more in terms of other forms of aid because they feel bad about continually turning down this no-fly zone. REPORTER:  Hours after President Zelenskyy addressed the U.S. Congress, President Joe Biden announced an additional $800 million in security   assistance to Ukraine. BRONK:  Ultimately, I think it may be a slightly self-defeating strategy at this point, but it is becoming a bit of a drag on on people`s morale in   Ukraine, that the West won`t do this. And of course, even if you could impose a no-fly zone over all of Ukraine, the vast majority of the damage   being done in Ukrainian cities is being done by artillery, which is nothing that a no-fly zone can touch. REPORTER:  As Russia intensifies the offensive over Ukraine, pounding civilians through punishing artillery strikes on several cities, the West   has been grasping for alternatives to a no-fly zone as it refuses a direct confrontation with Russia. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: What is the most common type of roofing material in the U.S.? Rubber, aluminum, asphalt or slate? Shingles made from asphalt are common and affordable though they may not last as long as other options. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  There are several factors behind rising home prices and the record high costs of rent. We`re about to show you what they are. The reason this   matters is that it contributes to inflation when overall prices go up and your money buys less. This can impact the entire U.S. economy because it`s   largely based on the goods and services people buy. When it comes to home prices, it`s not just about lumber and labor. Practically everything is getting more expensive. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ALLISON BRAUN, FIRST TIME HOMEBUYER:  This was nothing as I expected, purchasing my first home. VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Allison Braun bought her first home in February after losing bidding wars   and paying $75,000 over budget, she settled on a fixer-upper, expecting to save some money. BRAUN:  It was really surprising getting in here and fixing things up. Overwhelming is another way I`d explain it. YURKEVICH:  Rents are up a record 17 percent in the last year, with homes up nearly 20 percent and so are construction costs. Braun who works for the   real estate company Redfin is redoing nearly every space in her home. The kitchen needed new counters. BRAUN:  And we were really surprised by the cost, especially the labor to put them in. We wanted to figure out a way of how we can do our countertops   on our own and save cost and labor. So, the concrete countertops were born. YURKEVICH:  But it`s not just homeowners getting stuck with higher costs. Construction materials are up 24 percent in the last year. Bill McGrath`s company is installing elevators in this new residential housing complex in New Jersey. So far, they`ve put in two. What are the materials in this elevator that you have seen an increase on? BILL MCGRATH, PRESIDENT AND CEO, SOUTH JERSEY ELEVATOR:  Well, right here, you have the electronics, which this is a stainless steel. You have the   plastics, the electronic boards behind it. That`s costing more. The ceilings, wood, you`re standing on lumber, there`s steel underneath. YURKEVICH:  And is all of it going up? MCGRATH:  Yeah. YURKEVICH:  Supply chain slowdowns and demand have pushed construction costs up, forcing projects to come in over-budget and over-deadline. How much more is this elevator going to cost than the one we just saw? MGRATH:  We`re at right this one here is going to cost 17 percent more material cost than the other two that we completed. YURKEVICH:  And he says his 18-person company is spending more on gas to bring materials in, up 24 percent in the last month. All of these rising   costs will get passed down. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Teachers, instructors, home school parents, if you`re not subscribed to our daily newsletter, you`re missing out on a free preview of what`s in   each day`s show. To get it, all you got to do is visit our website, CNN10.com and scroll down to where it says sign up for daily emails. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  A crime story rates a 10 out of 10. Police could clearly see that after he broke into a house in North Carolina, Steve needed help. This is Steve. He entered a house uninvited   through a garage door and hid out in tight places as well as on the kitchen counter. No one would see him there. But someone did. So, the Greenville Police Department caught the suspect, had him checked out by Animal Protective Services, and let Steve freely fly   back home, his home. So now that he`s free as a bird, he`s probably having a hoot singing hits like I`m like a bird, snow bird, free bird, black bird, bluebird,   mockingbird, fly like an eagle, I will survive and my personal favorite, owl fly away. Or maybe just like a bird set free, all he had to say was see   ya. Today, we see Many High School. Thank you for watching from Many, Louisiana. I`m Carl Azuz. END     

Date: 2022-04-01
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Fridays are awesome. I`m Carl Azuz. People are quitting their jobs. There are jaguars in Belize. If this weren`t an explainer show, we could end it right there. But it is, so we`re going to start by explaining the ongoing great resignation. It`s happening in the U.S. and beyond, and it concerns people   voluntarily leaving their jobs in droves. This February, 4.4 million people in America quit what they were doing. That`s according to new information   from the U.S. government. It`s not quite a record. That occurred last November when 4.5 million resigned. But the elevated quit rate does continue a trend set last year when a record was broken. Throughout 2021, almost 48 million Americans decided to   leave their jobs. They weren`t laid off or fired, and that was the most in a year since the government began keeping track in 2001. This doesn`t mean they stopped working altogether so they could watch TikTok videos. For one thing, there are a lot of jobs open in the U.S.,   almost two positions for every person who doesn`t have a job. So, experts say because there`s an increased demand for workers, at least in some   fields, people are more confident that if they quit what they`re doing, they`ll be able to find something else and something better. There`s a labor shortage in several industries: retail and restaurants, hotels and healthcare, manufacturing, education and transportation. Many   employers in these fields have increased their pay and offered additional benefits to attract new hires. The resignation rate isn`t across all   industries. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce says in stable, higher paying fields, there`s less movement. But for those where there are lots of quits, analysts say there are several reasons why in addition to pay. Some workers want more flexibility. They   like working from home after COVID spread, so they want a job that won`t require them to come back to the office full time. Some employees have left   their jobs to care for elderly relatives or because they had trouble finding child care. Last year, some said their employers` COVID vaccine requirement was a reason they`d leave, and many have said they want a job that`s more   personally fulfilling. One analyst interviewed by CNN said he expects resignation rates to stay high for a while. This isn`t just happening in America. Resignations have increased from the United Kingdom to Australia. That nation`s government says the rate of   people changing jobs is percent higher than it was before the pandemic spread and France saw a record number of resignations during the third   quarter of last year. But one employment studies expert says the quit rate in Europe was also high in the early 2000s, so it may not be as extensive   overall as it is in the U.S. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these civilizations existed in ancient Belize? Maya, Inca, Aztec or Indus? In the Central American nation of Belize, as well as parts of Mexico and Guatemala is where you`d find the Maya. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  And we`re headed to Belize for our next story this Friday. It`s the only nation that has a jaguar preserve and that`s located in a Mayan region   of the central part of Belize. The International Union for the Conservation of Nature considers jaguars to be a near-threatened species, meaning that without efforts to preserve   them, they could become threatened in the years ahead. The IUCN believes that jaguar numbers have decreased by 20 to 25 percent over the past two   decades, but there are people working to ensure the species has space to thrive. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BILL WEIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Growing up surrounded by forest in rural Belize, Reynold Cal heard stories of an animal sacred and   fearsome. REYNOLD CAL, MANAGER, RUNAWAY CREEK NATURE RESERVE:  I`m a Kekchi Maya, one of the three Maya tribes in Belize. So, I would go in the forest at a very   young age and when I saw those big jaguar tracks, it usually gave me a fear in my heart. Now, Cal`s job is to track and protect these animals. These are ancient Maya drawings. The jaguar is the symbol for strength and might. WEIR:  It`s a passion that`s more than skin deep. CAL:  These tattoos are from actual jaguar patterns. This one is from a jaguar that we call Romeo. It has a hardship. It`s part of me now. WEIR:  Cal is the manager of Runaway Creek Nature Reserve in Central Belize. It`s part of a crucial wildlife trail called the Maya Forest   Corridor which connects protected habitats in the north and south of the country. Corridors like this offer a lifeline for far-roaming jaguars, to   more prey, mates and territory. Today, Cal`s working with Emma Sanchez of Panthera, a global wildcat conservation organization and they are on the prowl for jaguars. Conservation experts say that jaguar populations are declining across their range from Mexico to Argentina. But not here, says Sanchez. EMMA SANCHEZ, BELIZE JAGUAR PROGRAM COORDINATOR, PANTHERA:  We consider Belize a stronghold for jaguar population because they`re found in all of   the protected areas and even outside the protected areas. ELMA KAY, MANAGING DIRECTOR, BELIZE MAYA FOREST TRUST:  Populations of wildlife need genetic diversity to be able to survive. You get that by   having mixing of jaguars from the northern part of Belize, with jaguars of the southern part of Belize. And that means that wildlife need to find   their way through that tiny sliver of forest. WEIR:  Once surrounded by jungle, the Maya forest corridor is now a bottleneck less than six miles wide. Over the past 10 to 15 years, biologist Elma Kay has seen much of the forest chopped away. KAY:  Imagine you`re getting squeezed on both sides, right? It`s mostly due to large-scale, mechanized, mono crop or agriculture that`s taking place. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The last remaining gateway for those animals --   WEIR:  Kay has been working with a coalition of local and international supporters to buy up patches of Belize for conservation. KAY:  We are here at the Cox Lagoon wetland which is actually a very critical and important part of a 30,000-acre parcel of land that we have   just purchased to protect in perpetuity for the people and government of Belize. WEIR:  Thanks to this effort and existing conservation sites like Runaway Creek, Kay says just under half of the Maya Forest Corridor is now   protected. KAY:  Hope is the last thing to keep you standing. We have to get up and do the things that we want to see happen. WEIR:  She is hopeful that one day, this whole precarious patchwork of jaguar habitat will be safe from destruction. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  In 2005, Pink Floyd did something off the wall. He flew the coop from his enclosure at a Kansas Zoo. Pink Floyd`s a flamingo. He`s been on   the loose for the past 17 years, but on March 10th, on the Gulf Coast of Texas, wildlife officials say a flamingo was captured on camera wearing leg   band number 492. That`s a match for the fugitive Pink Floyd. In a Facebook post, the Texas agency says it looks like he returned from the dark side of   the moon. Looks like he`s joined the beach boys, the birds, the sandpipers, the turtles, Herman`s hermit crabs and the rest of the animals working out all   the kinks to go on supreme safaris without a need for a Jefferson airplane. The searchers may go on around the Atlantic, but you know you`ll always   find the flamingos singing surf rock. I`m Carl Azuz. Swansboro High School gets today`s shout-out. The Pirates are watching from Swansboro, North Carolina. We hope your weekend ain`t just for the birds. END     

Date: 2022-04-04
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. I`m Carl Azuz. Hope your week and month are off to a good start. Today`s coverage begins with a down the middle look at a change in U.S. immigration policy and some of the effects it could have in America`s   southern border with Mexico. Two years ago, as the COVID-19 pandemic was spreading in America, the administration of President Donald Trump announced a rule called Title 42.   What it did was allow the U.S. government to deport or expel people trying to enter the United States in an effort to keep those who might have been   sick with coronavirus from carrying it into America. Title 42 was initially a temporary law, but it was extended indefinitely in May of 2020, and it   has remained in place under the administration of President Joe Biden. Late last week though, the Biden administration announced it would end Title 42. Government health officials said better conditions concerning   COVID and the presence of more tools to fight it meant that the border rule was no longer necessary. So starting on May 23rd, people who are seeking   asylum, those who say they`ve been discriminated against in their home countries will have an easier time getting into America. But the decision to end Title 42 is controversial, just like the rule itself. When the Trump administration put it in place, critics said it was   an illegal and unfair way to keep asylum seekers out of the U.S. When the Biden administration announced it would get rid of the rule, critics said   it would lead to an uncontrollable number of people wanting to cross the U.S.-Mexico border. As many as 18,000 migrants per day could try to do that   when the rule is lifted.  The Department of Homeland Security is preparing temporary facilities and deploying hundreds more officers to try to handle the increase in migrants.   Analysts predict that the number of people who will attempt to cross the border will overwhelm facilities that are already full.  Last year, a record number of migrants were either expelled from the U.S. or taken into custody to have their cases heard. This year`s numbers were   on pace to break that record before the government announced that Title 42 would be lifted. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  With a predicted surge in migrant families expected in the coming weeks, the Department of Homeland Security   in the United States saying that it is preparing for a worst-case scenario and that could mean according to the federal government up to 18,000   asylum-seeking people showing up at the nation`s doorstep. That`s certainly concerning. Some critics of that by administration and the announcement   that was made on Friday have said it expressed concern that the infrastructure in many of these border communities is not ready to handle   an expected uptick in these migrant families.  And the key issue here are these communities -- these temporary communities of migrants that have basically popped up in Mexican border towns,   including this one that you can see and brand new CNN drone video in Reynosa, Mexico, which is just across the Rio Grande just a few blocks from   where I`m standing at this hour. And these are migrants that according to sources, many of them have been basically expelled back. There are others   who have made that journey to the doorstep of the United States but due to that Title 42 public health authority have decided to simply wait out that   policy until it`s no longer an issue. And then that announcement made by the Biden administration on Friday that it will essentially allow that to expire come May 23rd, there`s some   concern of some of these fight administration critics that many of those people that are still waiting there potentially up to ten thousand in this   border town alone will seize that opportunity to finally show up at ports of entry and declare asylum, and that is what`s dividing many people in   border towns throughout the country. Polo Sandoval, CNN, Hidalgo, Texas. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  The U.S. government is sending an additional $300 million worth of military equipment to Ukraine as it continues to battle forces from Russia   which launched an invasion of Ukraine in late February. The new arms will include attack drones, rocket systems, night vision devices, machine guns   and medical supplies.  The Biden administration has made announcements like this several times over the past month. It says it sent more than $2.3 billion in security   assistance to Ukraine so far and a few weeks ago, President Biden signed legislation worth $13.6 billion for emergency aid to Ukraine. The fighting   in the Eastern European country has not let up. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these U.S. states was admitted to the union in 1850 before any of the others? California, Kansas, Washington or Arizona? California was the first of these states to be admitted. All the others achieved statehood after 1850. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Officials in California are telling residents to fix any leaks in their homes, make sure the tap isn`t running when they brush their teeth   and they consider letting their lawns go brown. And California`s ongoing drought is the reason why. The current one has lasted for more than two years now, though California`s government says droughts are a recurring feature of the climate. Things   were looking up in December. More than 17 feet of snow fell in part of the Sierra Nevada Mountains, breaking records that had stood for decades. But   then things started drying up again in January.  And now, the mountain ranges snowpack is at 38 percent of where it normally is at this time. That`s not the lowest it`s ever been. "The Mercury News"   reports that the Sierra Nevada snowpack has been lower on several occasions since 1950, but here`s why the measurement is so important to the state. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  I am standing south of Lake Tahoe in California and it is an absolutely beautiful day here. That`s actually bad,   and the reason that that`s bad is because this is where California snowpack is.  And what the snowpack is, is basically a frozen reservoir. It`s a place where water is stored throughout the cold months so when it storms and they   get snow up here at Lake Tahoe, all of that snow that`s throughout the Sierra Nevada mountains that is called the snowpack and it accumulates and   then slowly it melts off and it finds its way down rivers and makes its way into our reservoirs and that is pretty much a large way of how we get our   drinking water. In fact, according to California, this is where 30 percent of our water, including our drinking water, comes from in the state. So we really do care   and really do need to know how much water is up here. So what they do routinely is several different times throughout the cold months is that   they will have a few people come out and measure how much snow is on the ground.  And sometimes, it`s a lot. This could be like taller than, you know, me. It could be more snow than that. And then other times, there`s not a lot.  In fact, I want you to take a look at this video because it`s really cool. This is a scientist from the Department of Water Resources for California,   and he`s got this cool pool that`s got a hollow center to it and he can stick that into the ground to see how much snow is there. And they do this   in different parts of the state or different parts of the Sierra Nevada Mountains and they do it on the same days every year just to make sure that   they have a routine measurement.  And so with this most recent measurement, you can see there`s not a lot there. In fact, they said there was only two and a half inches of snow.   That`s it, just two and a half inches of snow. And that means about one inch of water once it melts off.  And so, once it melts off, you would like for it to take its time to come down the mountain because if you take a look behind me and you look at that   shot, you can see there`s already a lot of water that`s making its way down out of the mountains. That`s going to make its way into our reservoirs.   It`s also going to make sure those habitats for some of the fish out there. It`s very important that this happens.  But that`s very little, and this is concerning because California is already in a drought for now going into its third year. So this is going to   show to us and it does indicate to us that we are not going to have the normal amount of water that we would normally rely on for those dry hot   months that are ahead of us. So this is why they take these measurements and this is why we look at them.  This is not good. I mean, they`ve been measuring at the same location since 1941, and the average is like 66 inches. It`s somewhere around there. So if   you look at just that two and a half inches, that shows you just how little is there and that is exactly why we come up here to see this. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Okay. The way to look at this and not be completely grossed out is to think of it like chocolate?  This is slime and not just any old toxic sludge. Researchers at the Chinese University of Hong Kong say it can be controlled like a robot using   magnets.  Okay, that`s nice, Carl. But why?  Well, if they make it safe to ingest, it`s not at this point, this slime could be used to remove deadly substances from the body. It could also be   used in electronics.  Or maybe it`s just the stuff of movies. Think the green slime, the slime people or Ghostbusters, he slimed me. There`s I know what you did last   slimer, Franken-slime, Valenslime`s day, the slime side. Of course, everybody`s favorite, slimedog millionaire. It`s sure to find slime for a   leading role. I`m Carl Azuz. Marietta High school in Marietta, Georgia, gets today`s shout out. You guys are like Fridays and we hope to see all y`all again tomorrow. END     

Date: 2022-04-05
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Good news and bad news concerning the U.S. economy headlines today`s show. I`m Carl Azuz. It`s great to have you   watching. According to the latest jobs report from the U.S. government, which gives a snapshot of how things looked in March, more than 430,000 new positions   were added nationwide last month. Economists had predicted growth of 490,000 jobs. It fell short of that but the numbers are still considered a   sign of strong growth. Another measurement economists pay close attention to is the unemployment rate. This is an estimate of the percentage of American workers who don`t   have a job and that number for March was 3.6 percent, the lowest it`s been since the 1960s is 3.5 percent and that happened in February of 2020, just   before the effects of the COVID pandemic hit America. So, what`s the bad news here? Inflation is a major problem. Housing prices, new construction, existing homes and rent have all gone through the roof.   By the end of last year, the prices of the things we buy had risen by their biggest margin in 40 years. Gasoline prices rose steadily throughout 2021,   and they jumped even higher after Russia invaded Ukraine in late February. If you add up the costs of groceries, gas and many other things that American families usually buy Bloomberg Economics expects the typical   household will pay $5,200 more this year than it did last year for the exact same things. That`s why even though wages have been increasing in   many jobs, Americans aren`t feeling those raises because the increase in prices is greater than the additional money in their pockets. What they are   feeling is reflected in consumer sentiment, how people perceive their own money and the economy as a whole and that measure for March was at its   lowest level in more than a decade. So, what are the upsides to the U.S. government`s latest employment numbers? (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  Well, they`re saying there was strong hiring across the board and an unemployment rate that fell   to the lowest of the pandemic, 431,000 jobs added back into the economy, 3.6 percent is the jobless rate. Also, some very good news for January and February. Those numbers were revised higher. Look at February, 750,000 jobs added back in that month.   That is much stronger than we expected. That has been the trend, hasn`t it, as they`ve been trying to grapple with all of this flux in the American job   market. When they go back and really look at those numbers they tend to revise them higher. So, a strong performance here in the beginning of the year. In fact, if you look at the average, it`s about 562,000 jobs added back on average in the   first quarter of this year. In normal times, you would be screaming from the rooftops. We know that those are jobs being added back after a huge   washout at the beginning of the pandemic. The U.S. economy is still down about 1.6 million jobs since it all began. The story is really in the jobless rate here. This is 14.7 percent at the worst. This was a really, really ugly moment. Last year, you were still at   6 percent. Now, 3.6 unemployment, that shows you that people are being hired, people are being employed and the unemployment rate is tumbling   quite quickly here. In fact, when you look at these numbers, you can see that 480,000 people came off the sidelines and went back into the labor market. That`s what you   want to see, they`re hearing about rising wages. They`re hearing about all this job hopping that`s providing people with this great opportunity in the   American jobs market and they`re coming back into the labor market. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these events occurred in 1790? First U.S. census taken, Washington was elected president, the U.S. Constitution was ratified, or slavery was abolished? 1790 was the year of the first U.S. census. It found that just under 4 million people lived in America. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  1950 was the last time a census of most U.S. households was taken by people going door to door. After that, the Census Bureau started mailing   Americans the forms to fill out. The findings from the 1950 Census have just been made available to the public, a database of almost 7 million   records is now online. A spokesman for the National Archives says the project`s been in the works for a decade. The original paper documents these records came from no   longer exist. They were destroyed in the 1960s, so what you can see was scanned from microfilms that the bureau took in 1952. It`s not a complete list of everyone who lived in America. After the census was taken, the bureau estimated that the count missed more than four   percent of the population. But for most people whose ancestors lived here in 1950, it`s an interesting genealogical snapshot of their family`s   history. Next story recalls one of the great lines of literature the old man was dreaming about the lions. Across the Atlantic and across the African   continent, old men aren`t the only ones who are dreaming of big cats. Conservationists are working to balance tribal safety, livelihood and   traditions with the preservation of a powerful creature. Lions are considered to be a vulnerable species whose numbers are reportedly   decreasing in the wild. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BILL WEIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Sunrise on the edge of Ruaha National Park. Here in Central Tanzania, livestock is life. STEPHANO ASECHEKA, HUMAN-WILDLIFE CONFLICT MANAGER, LION LANDSCAPES (through translator):  Our tribe believes livestock is part of the family   and we cannot live without them. WEIR:  Another day another deadly threat for livestock and people. Stephano Asecheka is part of the batter big, a little-known tribe with a long history with lions. ASECHEKA (through translator):  In our tribe, our customs and traditions raised us to have pride in killing a lion as a young man and we are made to   believe that once you kill one, it at least reduces death rate. WEIR: Traditionally, young warriors like this would gain rewards and status from killing lions. Part of the lion defenders program, Asecheka is showing them ways to protect the tribe while preserving the pride. ASECHEKA:  The lion defenders work in the village areas and their task is to survey the borders early in the morning for lion tracks and to inform   elders of the safety grazing areas. WEIR:  The lion defenders are part of the Ruaha Carnivore Project founded by Amy Dickman in 2009. When she first came here four years previously,   things were bad. She said she had to work hard to gain the tribe`s trust. AMY DICKMAN, RUAHA CARNIVORE PROJECT:  We said we are just here to find out why you`re killing these lions and if there`s a way you could achieve   whatever you achieved through it through conservation rather than killing. WEIR:  And eventually, persistence paid off. DICKMAN:  They really opened up to us and since then it`s really been a transformative relationship in working with them for conservation. We   certainly know the lion killings have decreased by over 70 percent in the core area that we`re working in. WEIR:  The project offers financial incentives to protect lions by funding community services like education, doctors and vets. DICKMAN:  We`d love to collaborate with you guys. It really can be a way of uplifting people and making sure that wildlife is a way to get people out   of poverty as well. WEIR:  Asecheka also gives tours of the park to help his tribe see wildlife from a new perspective. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  The streets of Long Island, New York, are probably not the best place for a baby seal to wander. But, well, residents called police when   they saw this little guy making his way through a parking lot. Officers believe he swam up the Peconic River, climbed out and somehow got lost,   winding up in a traffic circle. This is a federally protected species. He`s cute but you can`t take him home as a pet. Police were able to pick him up though and take him to a   rehabilitation center. The seal`s in good shape and will soon be returned to the beach. We mustn`t walrush to judgment. We don`t know how long he was there for her or if he was blubbering about being lost. The ocean is filled with killer   whales and so if he`s trying to go-go on land to get away, our lips are sealed. We just hope he waits until the walk signal flippers on, so he   could safely use the pin and pedestrian crossing. All right. Today`s show takes us to the Park. Park High School is located in Cottage Grove, Minnesota, and I`m Carl Azuz for CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-04-06
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. I`m Carl Azuz. We`re going to school on today`s show to explore what it`s like for young Ukrainian refugees to attend classes in a different country with a   different language. With each passing day in their home nation, we`re getting a clearer picture of what they left behind. It`s been about a month and a half since Russia launched what it called a special military operation in Ukraine, ongoing peace talks between Russian   and Ukrainian government officials have not led to a stop in the fighting and the scars are getting deeper from the Russian invasion. It`s not just   scenes of destruction though they`re extensive according to Ukrainian officials. They say about 90 percent of the residential buildings in the   city of Mariupol have been damaged or destroyed in the fighting. But now, there are international accusations that Russian troops have been   committing war crimes. Even in times of conflict, the United Nations has rules against certain actions that warring countries can take. These limits were agreed to in the   Geneva Conventions of 1949, and they include intentionally causing great suffering, unjustified destruction of property, taking hostages and   mistreating prisoners. Russian forces recently pulled back from the Ukrainian city of Bucha which is located just a few miles northwest of the capital. And what they left   according to several world leaders is evidence of war crimes civilians who were reportedly murdered indications that people were atrociously harmed.   Russia has denied targeting civilians in the war and it says pictures of alleged war crimes from Bucha are fake and that they were staged by the   Ukrainian government. But European and American leaders are calling for more sanctions, penalties on Russia`s economy in response. The United Nations estimates that more than 4.2 million Ukrainian civilians have left their homeland to live in other nations. More than half of them   have arrived in Poland and that`s where CNN`s Kyung Lah got an idea of what it`s like for some Ukrainian students to go back to school. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KYUNG LAH, CNN SENIOR CORRESPONDENT:  To learn the full scope of war, take a seat in Ms. Magda`s classroom. She is a Polish teacher using Google translate to communicate in Ukrainian with her new foreign students. Her class has grown by 40 percent this month, with new children who`ve just fled the only home they`ve ever known. You are translating, on the Internet, as you teach. MAGDALENA AGACINSKA-WOZNIAKOWSKA, POLISH TEACHER:  Yes, because I know only Polish language. LAH:  How important it is for you, as a teacher, to help these kids? AGACINSKA-WOZNIAKOWSKA:  Very important. LAH:  Primary School 157 with bilingual classes has welcomed every new refugee. Classes are more cramped, but these public school students don`t   complain, because they feel they already know the strangers sitting next to them. EDWARD CZYZEWSKI, POLISH STUDENT:  Well, a lot of kids have come to our school, and some of them have told us stories about what happened. They`ve   left people that they love behind. LAH:  Edward Krzyzewski is 13 years old, a Polish student, seeing the influx of war survivors come through his school doors. CZYZEWSKI:  The more we take, the better we`re doing. LAH:  The better? CZYZEWSKI:  Yes. LAH:  So, you don`t mind that the rooms are crowded? CZYZEWSKI:  No. No. It`s for a good cause. LAH:  So, these are all Polish kids. Warsaw`s mayor tells us the strain on his city schools is enormous. The 100,000 additional refugee children in Poland`s capital need an education.   It is an increase of 30 percent, just this last month. Nazar Samodenko is 13. He`s from Kyiv. Your mom is here? NAZAR SAMODENKO, UKRAINIAN REFUGEE:  Yes. LAH:  Your father? SAMODENKO:  No. He`s staying in Ukraine. LAH:  Nazar`s father is a minister, helping fight in the war. It took a week for Nazar to escape Ukraine with his mother. School offers a structure   of a life he`s lost. Your favorite subject is? SAMODENKO:  Math. LAH:  Math. You like math? SAMODENKO:  Yes. LAH:  Is it easier being around other Ukrainian kids? Yes, he says. We can talk. They understand. LAH:  Of the 4 million refugees fleeing Ukraine, half are children. How hard is it for kids your age to live through this? CZYZEWSKI:  I think it`s practically impossible to go through this. It`s just mind-boggling how this could happen to someone that young. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these U.S. government agencies is oldest, having been founded in 1946? Environmental Protection Agency, Centers for Disease Control, Department of Energy, or Department of Health and Human Services? The communicable disease center which became the Centers for Disease Control was founded in 1946. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  The CDC is planning to make some changes in the days ahead. Its director announced this week that an outside health official would be   making a month-long review of the agency the plan is to devise new ways of giving scientific guidance to Americans. Since the COVID-19 pandemic started more than two years ago, the CDC has gotten a lot of criticism over how it`s handled issues concerning mask-  wearing, quarantine times and vaccine boosters. Its reputation has taken a hit with some Americans saying they`ve been frustrated by what they call   flip-flops in the CDC`s guidance. Last spring, for instance, the health care agency said that Americans who were fully vaccinated no longer needed to wear masks even when indoors. But   by last summer, it went back to recommending masks for everyone in areas where COVID-19 was spreading as research showed vaccines did not prevent   people from catching or spreading coronavirus. Health officials say they still help prevent hospitalizations from COVID. The CDC says never in its 75-year history did it have to make decisions so quickly based on constantly changing and often limited science. The agency   hopes to restructure, becoming more modern and better able to conduct its health care mission. As far as the COVID pandemic goes, the number of new cases in America have fallen dramatically since the beginning of the year and health officials   say vaccination and natural immunity from having had COVID before should help protect people against newer COVID versions. According to a recent article by three American infectious disease experts, finding out how to live with COVID rather than trying to eliminate it   altogether should be America`s goal. That`s not the case in China which still has some of the world`s strictest COVID policies and they`re causing controversy in Shanghai. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SELINA WANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  There`s no end in sight for Shanghai`s COVID lockdown. We`re now in the second week of a citywide lockdown that   was only supposed to last a few days. But now, authorities are saying the lockdown will stay in place until further notice. COVID-19 cases in the   mega city of 25 million people continues to reach record highs, of more than 10,000 a day. It`s China`s worst outbreak since the pandemic began. Emotions are running high in China`s financial capital. Many there are angry and fed up, desperately seeking medical care and basic supplies. The   medical system in Shanghai is stretched to the limit, even though most COVID cases in China are recorded as asymptomatic or mild, every single   case is required to go to a hospital or a quarantined facility and countless complaints have surfaced online of the conditions at those   quarantined facilities. Chinese social media showing this chaotic scene at a makeshift hospital in Shanghai. We spoke to a woman who was there at the scene. You can see   patients battling for limited blankets and food with no medical staff in sight. There are even videos circulating online of children, even infants   quarantined at hospitals, separated from their parents after testing positive for COVID-19. We don`t know how many families have been impacted, but we`ve learned from sources that it includes children of U.S. citizens. But despite these   enormous economic and social costs, Chinese authorities are still doubling down on its zero COVID strategy, treating this as an all-out battle against   the virus. But this latest outbreak is putting China`s zero COVID strategy to the limit and is also putting its people`s patience to the test. Selina Wang, CNN, Tokyo. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Since 1979, The Beast at Ohio`s Kings Island amusement park has held the Guinness World Record for longest wooden roller coaster. It measured   7,359 feet long with a ride running for 4 minutes and 10 seconds, an eternity in track time. However, off season refurbishing work has extended its length by 24 inches to a new record total of 7,361 feet. Riders probably won`t notice that but   they probably will notice its steeper first drop, which has gone from 45 degrees to the nth degree, making it a track star as long as it doesn`t go   off the rails. Would or wouldn`t you trust it? Is this something you would pine for, tracking it down from coast to coaster, or is there no way a scenic railway   would make way beneath your seat? I guess it depends on whether you have nerves of steel or buckle, beneath the pressure. I`m Carl Azuz. Today`s shout-out goes out to Bolton Central High school. Our viewers watching from Bolton, New York. Thank you for subscribing and leaving a   comment on our YouTube channel. END     

Date: 2022-04-07
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  It makes sense that around the time of spring break, we would have stories of sun, sand and squid on today`s show. That`s   coming up in just a couple minutes. I`m Carl Azuz. And we begin with a warning sign. A major international bank is predicting that a recession could be on the horizon for the United States. What, when   and why is how we`ll break this down. The "what" is a potential recession itself. It`s defined as a period of decreased economic activity when a nation`s gross domestic product   contracts or shrinks. The effects of a recession might include fewer retail sales, less manufacturing, lower income and more people without jobs. The organization predicting this is Deutsche Bank. It`s a corporation based in Germany that has a network in 58 countries from Europe to America to   Asia. It`s the first major financial institution that`s predicting a recession in the U.S. though some other economic groups have said chances   are growing for one. When would this hit? Deutsche Bank says probably between late next year and early 2024, though it adds there`s, quote, considerable uncertainty about   the timing and how bad the recession might be. So is this doom and gloom? Not necessarily. The bank thinks the potential recession will be mild, lasting a relatively short time. It may be a matter   of months with an unemployment rate of more than percent hitting in 2024. For perspective, the current rate, the percentage of American workers who   don`t have jobs is 3.6 percent. Why would any of this happen? Inflation, the rapid rise in prices for the things we buy has grown by its fastest pace in 40 years. Economic experts   think prices will probably stay high for the foreseeable future. There is a tool that America`s central bank has to try to reduce inflation. The Federal Reserve can raise interest rates which makes it more expensive   to borrow money and that can help lead to price decreases. But there are side effects to that. Deutsche Bank says because inflation is so high, it thinks the fed will raise interest rates so quickly, that it`ll   slam the brakes on economic growth and put the U.S. into recession. Again, none of this is certain, but the bank thinks all of these events will align in the years ahead. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  So, what`s the difference between a recession and a depression? It comes down to how long   the economy contracts. A recession is typically defined as two negative quarters of economic growth and as part of the normal business cycle. The U.S. economy has   fallen into recession more than 30 times since 1854. A depression is something vastly different. It happens when the economic decline is sustained and might potentially go on for years. That`s only   occurred once in American history in 1929, and it lasted 10 years. Because it lasts so long, a depression is more severe. A decade ago, unemployment hit percent during the worst of the Great Recession. But during the Great Depression, the jobless rate peaked at   nearly 25 percent. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which word can describe a thread-like object or a plasma extension on the sun? Firmament, fragment, filament or figment? Filament is the answer and it factors into a recent solar storm. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Regardless of what the weather outside is like where you`re watching, we are all being hit by a solar storm. A coronal mass ejection   from a filament lifted off the sun on March 3rd, according to the U.S. government and the effects of this were predicted to hit the Earth on   Wednesday and Thursday. So what does that mean? Hopefully not much. Even though solar storms can cause problems on Earth by disrupting GPS, satellites and the power grid,   the one hitting now is relatively minor. It`s classified as a G1 on a scale from G1 to G5 with the "G" standing for geomagnetic and the one being the   weakest classification on the NOAA Geomagnetic Storm Scale. So why and how are scientists keeping up with these events? (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RACHEL CRANE, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Solar storms have been known to cause all kinds of trouble disrupting flights and power grids sounds kind of scary.   So how worried should we actually be? The weather on the sun is a little different than the weather here on earth. It consists of solar wind, solar flares and coronal mass ejections,   which are these giant bubbles of plasma and magnetic fields from the sun that send high-speed particles into space. These storms can last a few   minutes or several hours. And even though they`re happening over 90 million miles away, they`re so powerful that their effects can linger in our   magnetosphere and atmosphere for days or weeks. If directed at earth, these flares and CMEs create geomagnetic storms that then dazzle us with spectacular auroras. But that`s the fun part. Beyond a   light show, these solar storms can harm most modern-day technology, like satellites communication systems, power grids and airplanes. They can make   airplanes disappear from radar detection and cause major blackouts. In 1989, a solar storm caused a blackout in Canada that left 6 million without power for 12 hours. While our technology is at the mercy of these   solar storms, our bodies are not. That`s because the Earth`s atmosphere shields us from harmful radiation. But astronauts who are traveling through space won`t be as lucky. Shielding astronauts from the space weather is something NASA is working on right now   to make sure our astronauts are safe and shielded on future deep space missions. But back here on Earth, there`s a facility in Boulder, Colorado, that monitors the sun`s forecast. It`s called the Space Weather Prediction   Center. So by getting ahead of the space weather, we can better protect our technology. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  The second of two reports from CNN`s Rachel Crane today takes us out to sea. Tidal energy is a relatively new form of power production. The   publication `NS Energy" says it`s possible it could damage marine life or change shorelines and it has to be built close to land because it relies on   powerful currents to generate energy. Also, not everyone supports using taxpayer dollars to subsidize or support green energy, but the technology is moving forward. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CRANE (voice-over):  For decades, wind and solar have been the centerpieces of green energy. But the ocean`s ever constant waves and tides are also   rich with renewable power that has remained largely untapped. Off the coast of Scotland, Orbital Marine Power is one of the companies trying to change that. Its jumbo jet size floating platform called the O2   has two giant rotors that sit 60 feet below the surface of the water and can harness the energy of the ocean`s tides. ANDREW SCOTT, CEO, ORBITAL MARINE POWER:  It`s kinetic energy. So the bits of technology that generate the power look not too different to a wind   turbine. CRANE:  But unlike wind turbines that have to accommodate for wind coming from all directions, the O2 only needs to capture energy from two. SCOTT:  You have a flood tide when the tide comes in, you have an ebb time when the tide goes out. CRANE:  And tides are far more reliable than wind. SCOTT:  You can predict those motions years and decades into advance. CRANE:  This is orbital`s third tidal turbine system to be connected to the U.K. national grid for testing since 2012. This latest design features   rotors that can lift out of the water for easier access for repairs. The company says one O2 unit generates up to megawatts which it says is enough   to power around 2,000 homes a year. TREY TAYLOR, FOUNDER, VERDANT POWER:  Think of what Verdant Power`s doing at Roosevelt Island in New York City is what the Wright Brothers did at   Kitty Hawk. CRANE:  In the U.S. Verdant Power`s tri-frame system operates at the bottom of the East River, which is actually a tidal strait. It`s in a pre-  commercial phase but actively delivers power to New York City`s electric grid. TAYLOR:  The potential for marine energy is something like 250 gigawatts around the world and that`s just tidal. Doesn`t include rivers or large   canals. So you can see the potential for the applications not only our technology but competitors as well. I mean, there`s lots of room and we   really hope our competitors succeed too for the sake of the industry, but we`ve got to get our costs down. CRANE:  Right now, the high cost of building, operating and maintaining tidal power technology means that tidal energy comes at a premium. But   government investment could play a vital role in driving the price tag down. TAYLOR:  In the U.K., there are economic incentives. We`re counting on those for our first commercial projects as we start mass producing the   technology we`re going to pivot from the U.K. and right back to North America, Alaska, New York, Canada, tremendous water currents everywhere to   harvest. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Squid have been known to change color in the wild, likely to avoid being seen and eaten. But could they be observed doing this in captivity.   The answer as you can see is yes. Scientists at a lab in Japan noticed that while they were cleaning out the squid tank, the cephalopods appeared to be different colors depending on   whether they were near the algae. One experiment later, a climactic chameleon color conversion was quickly confirmed. Some of you might be hoping I`ll just squid while I`m ahead. You know, squidaddle before I start squiding around. Just because I love puns doesn`t   mean I`m calimarried to them. But whether you`re streaming the show or watching the cephalopodcast, you know I like to drop a few or a plankton of   them because they`re totally tubular and tasteful to a wide array of palate. Staples High School in Westport, Connecticut -- shout-out to you for subscribing and leaving a comment on our YouTube channel. I`m Carl Azuz for CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-04-08
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. I`m Carl Azuz. Before I was on air, I said that if I ever got that shot, I would begin every week-ending show with the words "Fridays are awesome". Promise kept. Here are a trio of headlines to kick things off this Friday: First, on the island of Puerto Rico, a U.S. territory about a thousand miles southeast of Florida, the lights went out Wednesday night.   Electricity to the whole island of more than 3 million people was lost after a fire at a power plant. Firefighters were able to douse the flames   but most Puerto Ricans still didn`t have electricity Thursday morning. School was cancelled, part of a hospital temporarily lost power after it had problems with its backup generator, and water service was stopped to   about a hundred thousand homes and businesses. Utility officials expected things to be back up and running Thursday night. They think the island-wide   blackout might have been caused by a circuit breaker failure and they`ve ordered replacement parts for the damaged plant. Second, the U.S. Supreme Court is getting a new justice. On Thursday, the Senate voted 53-47 to confirm Ketanji Brown Jackson as an associate   justice. President Joe Biden nominated her to the position in late February after Associate Justice Stephen Breyer announced his retirement. Following the Senate vote in which three Republicans joined all 50 Democrats in supporting the nomination, Jackson will become the first Black   woman to serve in the Supreme Court. She`s scheduled to be sworn in this summer after Justice Breyer`s retirement takes effect. Supreme Court appointments are highly important to America`s two major political parties. They each want justices who will interpret the law in a   way the parties agree with. Currently, three members of the court were appointed by Democrats, six were appointed by Republicans. That won`t change when Jackson is seated. She was nominated by a Democratic president. She`s replacing a justice who is nominated by a Democrat. So   what`s referred to as the court`s ideological balance is expected to stay the same. Third, another U.S. congressional vote, this one concerns the nation of Russia. The Senate and House of Representatives have overwhelmingly   approved legislation that economically punishes Russia for invading Ukraine. The law suspends normal trade relations between America and   Russia, and it bans the import of Russian oil, coal and natural gas to the U.S. The bill is now headed to President Biden`s desk for signature. This is another step in the American government`s efforts to penalize Russia and support Ukraine without sending U.S. troops to fight on   Ukraine`s side. Separately, the United Nations General Assembly voted Thursday to suspend Russia from the U.N. Human Rights Council. The United States which pushed   for Russia`s suspension says it shouldn`t be part of a group that promotes respect for human rights. Russia called the vote politically motivated and said it decided to voluntarily end its own membership. This all happened after Russia was   accused of committing war crimes in Ukraine. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  War criminal. This is the tag being slapped on Russian President Vladimir Putin by U.S. President Joe Biden. JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  He is a war criminal. FOREMAN:  The term covers a range of offenses and deliberately targeting civilians as chief among them. Russia has repeatedly denied it`s going   after civilian targets, but there`s vast evidence to the contrary. Remember that maternity hospital that was bombed, the theater where people were hiding, the family killed by a Russian strike on an evacuation route,   just look at the bombed-out center of Mariupol -- the Kremlin claims with no proof that the maternity hospital was being used as a Ukrainian combat   position and all patients and medical staff had left. They also deny hitting the theater, claiming a Ukrainian army battalion blew up that   building. But even then, to avoid being labeled as possible war crimes, attacks on civilian sites must be proportional enough to counter the military threat   but not to unduly endanger the civilian population, which brings us to other actions that may be considered war crimes. Some of the weapons the Russians are reportedly using in Ukraine are indiscriminate these weapons can kill at random. Cluster bombs which human   rights groups say have been used by Russia are released in the air by a missile and can scatter smaller bomblets over a wide area injuring or   killing anyone near including civilians. The same goes for thermo baric or vacuum bombs, which fill the air with fuel vapor then ignite it with   catastrophic effect. The International Criminal Court is already investigating allegations of war crimes committed at Putin`s command. So if they find evidence, what   next? The International Criminal Court in the Netherlands located in and often referred to as The Hague is a judicial body supported by the vast   majority of the world`s nations. It could pursue charges against Putin while he is in Russia but this is where huge stumbling blocks appear. It can be incredibly challenging and   take years to gather evidence to prove the intent behind the attacks and that someone as high up as Putin is responsible and convictions are rare. What`s more? The court does not try people in absentia. Russia would need to hand Putin over and that seems unlikely considering Russia, Ukraine and   the United States are among the few nations that do not recognize the court`s jurisdiction, even though the U.S. may more generally support the   court`s actions. Still there can be consequences for Putin. Being charged with war crimes even without a conviction could damage his political standing and would put   him at risk of arrest if he ever left Russia. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these buildings was considered the first skyscraper? Chicago Savings Bank Building, Home Insurance Building, New York Tribune Building, or Empire State Building? According to Guinness World Records Chicago`s 10-story Home Insurance Building was completed in 1885. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  It`s one thing to live in a historic building, a tall building or to be able to leap one in a single bound. But would you want to live in the   world`s skinniest skyscraper? It`s now open in New York City. Steinway Tower is named for the famous piano company that used to have a concert hall here. The newly constructed   building added to that is 1,428 feet high. One of the tallest skyscrapers in the Western hemisphere, and it has a height to width ratio of 24 to 1. For perspective, a ruler standing on its end has a height to width ratio of 12 to 1, according to real estate website "Curbed New York". So, by that   measurement, Steinway Tower is twice as skinny as a ruler. Is it safe? We`re sure it`s developers would say so. But similar and wider skyscrapers than this have been known to sway a few inches or a few feet in   the wind so some prospective buyers might find that unnerving. There are 60 condominiums available at Steinway. Because the building`s so skinny, there`s only one of them on each residence floor. And if this is   the kind of home you`ve always dreamed of, you`re going to need a few bucks. A studio apartment here lists for $7.7 million, and if you want the   penthouse at the top, you`ll need $66 million. That does get you more than 7,000 square feet of living space but it`s spread out over three levels because -- well, skinny. So keep this in mind   when shopping for something that`s a slim fit at the height of luxury. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Dang, bro. That drive-thru worker was tall. Make that three of them, because what do you do after serving up the biggest comeback in NCAA   tournament history, you serve up chicken. At least three players from the University of Kansas men`s basketball team did that on Wednesday at a   restaurant in Lawrence, Kansas. But, Carl, you might be asking, why? They said it was a way to connect with fans and show appreciation for their support. And when you think about it, chicken fingers and basketball have a lot in common. They`re both dunked with sauce. They`re good on a fast break. You   can always get a box in one. They both involve foul and they`re served up in baskets. So, why shouldn`t ballers cross over to take a shot at a drive-  thru? I`m Carl Azuz. Today`s shout-out goes out to Giltner Public School. It is located in the village of Giltner, Nebraska. Hope your weekend is a win. END     

Date: 2022-04-11
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. I`m Carl Azuz. Welcome back to a new week of our show. Our first report covers events from Eastern and Northern Ukraine. On Friday morning, a missile struck a train station in the Eastern Ukrainian city of   Kramatorsk. There were thousands of people estimated to be there at the time waiting on trains to evacuate the war-torn area. At least 57 were   killed in the blast and more than a hundred were injured. Ukrainian officials blamed Russia for attacking civilians. They say Russian forces knew the area was filled with people and chose to deliberately and   barbarically kill them.  Russia says it did not conduct any artillery strikes in the city and that the type of missile involved was used only by Ukrainian forces.  The attack took place as Russia reportedly planned a major military operation to take over territory in Eastern Ukraine. Before it invaded the   country, Russia recognized two areas in this region as independent. On the day of their invasion, February 24th, Russian forces took over the   Chernobyl nuclear power plant.  It`s located in northern Ukraine, not far from the nation`s capital. It`s the site of the worst nuclear accident in history. When Ukraine was still   part of the Soviet Union in 1986, an explosion and partial meltdown here released harmful radiation into the atmosphere and the surrounding   environment. Chernobyl was shut down and covered by a large dome in the years that followed but radioactive material remains in the Red Forest that   surrounds Chernobyl, and Russian troops there might have been exposed to dangerous levels of it. The radiation they tracked into the plant wasn`t   especially high.  CNN`s Fred Pleitgen went there. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) FRED PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Simply getting to the Chernobyl exclusion zone is a treacherous journey. Many   streets and bridges destroyed, we had to go off-road crossing rivers on pontoon bridges.  Finally, we reached the confinement dome of the power plant that blew up in 1986, the worst nuclear accident ever. Russian troops invaded this area on the very first day of their war against Ukraine and took Chernobyl without much of a fight. Now that the Russians   have left, Ukraine`s Interior Minister Denys Monastyrsky took us to Chernobyl and what we found was troubling. The Russians imprisoned the security staff inside the plant`s own bomb shelter, the interior minister told us, no natural light, no fresh air, no   communications. While the plant`s technical staff was allowed to keep working the Ukrainians say Russian troops were lacks with nuclear safety. And as we enter the area Russian troops stayed and worked in, suddenly, the dosimeter`s alarm goes off -- increased radiation levels.  They went to the Red Forest and brought the radiation here on their shoes, this national guardsman says. Everywhere else is normal. Only this floor is   radioactive.  I ask, "Everywhere is okay but here is not normal?" "Yes," he says. "The radiation is increased here because they lived here and they went   everywhere." "On their shoes and clothes?" I ask. "Yes, and now they took the radiation with them." "Let`s get out of here," I say. The so-called Red Forest is one of the most contaminated areas in the world, especially the soil. The Ukrainian government released this drone   footage apparently showing that the Russians dug combat positions there. The operator of Ukraine`s nuclear plants says those Russian soldiers could   have been exposed to significant amounts of radiation. We went to the edge of the Red Forest zone and found a Russian military food ration on the ground. When we hold the dosimeter close, the radiation   skyrockets to around 50 times above natural levels. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: What is the most populated city in China? Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen or Hong Kong? Beijing is the capital but Shanghai is China`s most populous city with more than 28 million people living in the metropolitan area. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Chinese President Xi Jinping recently praised his country`s strict COVID policy, calling it a great success. Many people in the city of   Shanghai would disagree. China has kept the goal of trying to eliminate COVID cases altogether while most other countries have adopted policies of   living with the virus, treating cases of it without shutting down. The major coronavirus version that`s circulating right now is believed to be   less severe and less deadly than previous versions. But China has maintained a zero COVID strategy that`s so strict, it might have contributed to problems with getting basic supplies into Shanghai. On   Saturday, the local government allowed certain e-commerce deliveries to start again. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Workers stack a truck with bags of food and supplies to deliver to people locked down in the city of   Shanghai. But this shipment was made more than a week ago and residents say resupplying China`s most popular city of 25 million people is a logistical   nightmare. Much of Shanghai has been confined to their homes because of a severe COVID-19 outbreak in the city, and people are complaining that   stores have run out of food and it`s nearly impossible to schedule deliveries because couriers can`t keep up with the demand.  One man in Shanghai documenting the shortages on Twitter says, we had three deliveries that were booked to deliver today. All three were cancelled. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Everyday, my business is shut but my employees need to eat. I don`t have money! I have to pay for mortgage. In two days my   mortgage is due!  COREN:  Public anger over the restrictions is at a boiling point. On top of the difficulty of getting food, people have been outraged by a policy   separating COVID positive children from their parents, which was modified last week to allow infected parents to join them at isolation centers.  Uninfected parents of children with special needs can now also accompany their children if they sign an agreement saying they understand the health   risks, though the term "special needs" was not defined. On Saturday, the city`s Vice Mayor Zong Ming acknowledged that authorities had not met the public`s expectations in their handling of the situation.   And she also said the city may soon begin to ease restrictions in some areas where transmission rates are low enough. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  We`ve talked about how NASA wants more private investment in the International Space Station before the orbiting laboratory is taken down   and destroyed in 2031.  A Texas company called Axiom Space is involved here. It books rocket rides, training and flights to the ISS for anyone with the, quote, tens of   millions of dollars it costs for a seat. Axiom, SpaceX and NASA just sent three paying customers plus one former NASA astronaut to the orbiter. It`s   a first for people who aren`t currently government space employees, but they don`t want to be called space tourists. Here`s what they`ll be doing on their day mission. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RACHEL CRANE, CNN INNOVATION AND SPACE CORRESPONDENT:  The crew of Ax-1 successfully docked at the International Space Station Saturday morning   following a 20-hour journey. Now, this was a first of its kind mission that`s because all of the astronauts on board were private astronauts and   they were greeted once they boarded the International Space Station by the entire crew of Expedition 67 which included three NASA astronauts, a   European astronaut, as well as three Russian cosmonauts.  Larry Connor, the pilot of Ax-1, had some words about the historic nature of this mission. Take a listen. LARRY CONNOR, PILOT OF AX-1:  We`re here to experience this, but we understand there`s a responsibility, and the responsibility is for this   first civilian crew to get it right and that`s what we`re fully committed to with the support of everybody here at the ISS and on the ground. So it`s   going to be a busy week of research for us and I`m sure it`s going to fly by. CRANE:  And it`s going to fly by because they will be very busy on station. They`re not just taking in those breathtaking views. They`ll be conducting   over 100 hours of scientific experiments doing 25 different experiments. One on hologram teleportation, which is essentially a fancy way of saying a   two-way video dialogue, but also doing research into aging, as well as brain health and cardiac health. So a very busy eight days on station before they splash down here next week. Rachel Crane, CNN, Cape Canaveral, Florida. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Things that are fun to find in a couch -- a dime, popcorn, not a snake. But this is what a man in San Diego recently found coiled up in his   couch, a seven-foot long Vietnamese blue beauty rat snake. It`s not venomous but it can pack a painful bite. So the homeowner who is described as pretty frantic called a snake removal company to evict the uninvited house guest.  No one can explain how or why the animal wound up in a sofa. If you`re a coil at a coil found so far out of soil and it spoils and foils or taxes   you`re planning to relax, it`s time to call one who extracts and hope he gets there right away to strike the problem and viper away before it   slithers astray, no one wants to battle or rattle, you trip and fall, it could cause trouble when you`d rather it be in a purse or wallet. I`m Carl Azuz.  Maybe it makes sense we`re shouting out Medical District High School today. It is in Memphis, Tennessee. And we hope to CNN Ten-nessee all y`all again   tomorrow. END     

Date: 2022-04-12
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  A visit to the world`s busiest airport is coming up on today`s show. We`ll give you a few minutes to think of where that   might be as we begin in Eastern Europe. I`m Carl Azuz. Thank you for watching. It appears that two different military forces are flexing their muscles. The "Reuters" news agency reports that hundreds of Russian troops have been   staging war games in a Russian territory between Poland and Lithuania. Russia apparently didn`t give an official reason for the exercises but they   took place as NATO forces prepared to conduct drills of their own in Poland. The United States is a member of and the largest contributor to NATO, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. It`s an alliance of North American and   European countries. Ukraine is not a member of NATO but the alliance has been supporting Ukraine since Russia invaded the country in late February. That support has come in the form of food supplies, medical supplies and many different types of weapons to help Ukraine in its fight. But there`s a   limit to what NATO has been willing to do. It won`t provide Ukraine with additional fighter jets for instance because Russia has said that would be   an escalation that would directly involve other countries in the conflict NATO doesn`t want the war in Ukraine spreading outside that country`s   borders. Because Ukraine is not a NATO member, the alliance is not required to defend it. But if Russia were to attack a NATO country, it would be in a   war with the whole alliance. That`s why NATO`s military drills are designed to serve as a warning to Russia. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KYUNG LAH, CNN SENIOR CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  No words needed this is the NATO message to Russian President Vladimir Putin. This is the first   look at American troops firing weaponry on the ground in Poland since the war in Ukraine began. U.S. and polish forces publicly showed off the might of the west in a bilateral live fire training exercise. One by one polish tanks lined up   heavy artillery and paratroopers dangled from helicopters landing on a battleground that is designed to prepare for a war just a short drive away. The 82nd Airborne Infantry brigade combat team based at Fort Bragg has been drilling with American Black Hawks here in Poland for weeks, deployed in   mid-February before Russia invaded Ukraine. What we understand is that there are two platoons here, about 60 American troops taking part in this live fire act. It`s a show of force. We`re about   just two hours away from the Ukrainian border. The Americans trying to show that they are indeed working with the Polish troops. This is just a small snapshot of the greater U.S. force here. A U.S. official says approximately 11,000 U.S. troops are deployed in this NATO   country. They`re a visible sign of a larger military ramp up near Ukraine. A senior U.S. official tells CNN about eight to ten aircraft a day land at   airfields near Ukraine, with weapons and security assistance material that is moved into the war-torn country by truck convoy. This bilateral drill ends with a photo op for the cameras, the two countries side by side. What is the message you`re sending to Russia? COL. MICHAL MALYSKA, POLISH TERRITORIAL DEFENSE FORCES:  We are strong. We cooperate with our forces from the all NATO. We are ready for an action. We   are ready to defend our country. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Where would you find the world`s oldest airport? Maryland, USA, North Carolina, USA, Paris, France, or Hamburg, Germany? Flights began at Maryland`s College Park Airport in 1909 when Wilbur Wright trained two military pilots. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  And 550 miles southwest of College Park is where you`ll find Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, which is once again the   busiest airport on Earth, according to an airport trade association. We said once again because in 2020, China`s Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport took the top spot away from Atlanta as the COVID pandemic set in.   Guangzhou saw almost 43.8 million passengers in 2020. Atlanta saw just under 43 million. In 2021, whose numbers were just released by Airports   Council International, Atlanta saw 75.67 million passengers far more than any other airport. It was a big jump from 2020, but still 32 percent lower than travel was in 2019 before the pandemic. An executive with Airports Council International   says restrictions like vaccine and quarantine requirements actually did more harm than good to air transportation and tourism. Worldwide, air   travel last year was more than 50 percent lower than it was before COVID. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BRIAN WILANTE, AIR TRAFFIC CONTROLLER, ATLANTA:  When you push back off the gate, you`re going to be talking to an air traffic controller from the   minute you start taxing to the runway to get to your final destination. We have five parallel runways and I was working departures off of Runway 28. I`m talking directly to the pilot in the cockpit and I`m issuing line up and wait procedures, which means he`ll line up on the runway and I`m   showing take-off clearances. We run 2,700 airplanes a day. Volume breeds complexity here in Atlanta. There`s so many aircraft calling for taxi instructions, so many aircraft   returning from the landing runways trying to get to the gates. You`re asking an air traffic controller with their beverage of choices. It`s probably coffee you got to stay alert and you got to be focused at all   times. Because of the volume that we have here we run a probably about five or six emergencies a shift. And when these aircraft come into the airspace, we get   them into the airport as quickly as possible. You probably wouldn`t even notice it. it`s just -- just another day at work and the guys, they`re   professionals. We just keep moving though.. But we all don`t work in air traffic control towers. Once they get into the terminal environment where they have to start descending and getting into   the airport to land, they come into what`s like a bottleneck and they have to be sequenced to the airport and that`s what the radar approach   controller does. MIKE RYAN, AIR TRAFFIC CONTROLLER, ATLANTA TRACON:  Everybody controls chunks of airspace. A plane flies through airspace. He`s being handed off   from one controller to another controller. The center is the freeways in the sky, and we`re the off ramps -- the towers, the parking garage. So we take them off the off-ramp and line them   up so they can go into the parking garage smoothly. In layman`s terms, it`s taking them from fast and high and getting them low and slow, and getting them a lot closer before they get into the tower. You know, it`s not the movies. You don`t walk in the first day and they plug you in and you go to work. There`s a lot of map study and memorization   work involved. Everything on that radar screen means something.   I really do love doing the job. I mean, I`ve been doing it for 22 years. Those thunderstorms roll through, that room really pulls together and we   make it work. You go home at the other day go, man, we work through some pretty rough weather and we still landed all those airplanes. That`s -- we   take a lot of pride in that here. WILANTE:  I always liked aviation since being a kid. I used to have a little matchbox airport that you could fold out and have little die cast   airplanes and stuff like. That it was one of my favorite things I had to play with. But I get to play with them for real. But don`t misconstrue what I`m saying. What we do here is extremely important. The sheer volume of what we do every day and doing it without   any -- without a hiccup that`s job satisfaction enough. You`re never going to be outside of an air traffic controller`s control per se in this   country, and they`re going to be guiding you home. That 1859 contact departure, have a good flight. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  If you want to know what we`re planning to cover on each day`s show but you don`t have 10 minutes to watch, you can get a summary of our   planned topics with our free newsletter. It`s sent out the night before each show`s air date, and all you got to do to get it is tell us what email   address to send it to. Please click "sign up for daily emails" at CNN.com. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  If you`ve ever wanted to own a pretty large piece of music history - - well, this home`s for sale in Pennsylvania. It was once rented by the family of Taylor Swift when she was a kid before they moved to Tennessee to   pursue her music career. It`s a five-bedroom, three and a half bath Georgian colonial property, about 3,500 square feet. It`s much older than   Swift herself, having been built in 1929. But this is said to be the place where she learned to play guitar and write songs, and it can be all yours for a million dollars. Of course, everything has changed since Taylor called that home mine, and the highway don`t care if she`d look back and say we are never ever getting   back together or you belong with me. Is it where she left teardrops on her guitar? Does it make her think Tim McGraw? She could probably shake it off. But if sparks fly whatever you think popped memorabilia, maybe you could ride up there in a white horse and make a fairy tale out of home sweet   home. I`m Carl Azuz and today`s shout-out takes us to Chouteau, Oklahoma, where we are thrilled to see the students of Chouteau High School. The one place we look for shout out requests is on our YouTube channel. That`s YouTube.com/CNN10. END     

Date: 2022-04-13
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. I`m Carl Azuz. Welcome to the show. We`re going to the moon and beyond this Wednesday as a worldwide space race heats up. But we begin with something else that`s been heating up, a U.S. inflation rate that some economists say is out of control. Not since December of 1981   has the United States seen prices increase by so much over a one-year period. The U.S. government says between March of 2021 and March of this   year, the consumer price index also referred to as the inflation rate rose by eight and a half percent. That`s higher than the 8.4 percent that economists had predicted, and it means that for every hundred dollars Americans spent on commonly bought   goods last March, they had to spend an extra eight and a half dollars on them this March. That adds up as it spread out over things like gas,   groceries, housing medical care, car insurance, furniture and airline tickets. It was last year that America started seeing its highest price rises in decades. In May, they jumped to a level that was 5 percent higher than they   were in May of 2020, but by December, that percentage had risen to 7 percent over the previous year. And these rises have only gotten worse in   2022. Is there a silver lining to this? Well, some economists are hopeful that inflation will soon hit its peak, its highest rate of this period, if it   hasn`t done that already. That would at least mean that the price increases would stop climbing higher. But even if that happened in March and no one knows if it did, it could take months or longer before inflation rates come back down to manageable   levels. Eight and a half percent is dramatically higher than the two percent target that America`s Central Bank has for inflation rates. Next, if you take public transportation, you might notice more police on patrol. Security`s been increased at subway stations nationwide after a New   York passenger set off a gas canister and started shooting at other passengers Tuesday morning. Police say none of the people shot has life-  threatening injuries, though some were in critical condition yesterday. Numerous others were injured in the chaos. The suspect was still on the   loose when we produced this show and security was tightened at transit systems from California to Georgia. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: In Greek mythology, who is Apollo`s twin sister and the goddess of the moon? Artemis, Luna, Athena or Diana? Artemis also served as the goddess of the hunt and wild animals. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  NASA is trying to get its Artemis 1 mission off the ground. The $4.1 billion program which aims to return Americans to the moon has seen a   series of setbacks and delays. One of the latest issues involved a helium check valve that wasn`t working as it should. But the Artemis 1 rocket was scheduled to go through a sort of dress rehearsal Tuesday afternoon. That involved turning it on, filling the tanks   with propellant, simulating a launch countdown and then draining the tanks and shutting everything back down. After that, the plan was to move the   rocket back inside an assembly building and inspect the faulty valve. An Artemis mission manager acknowledged that more problems could come up, but overcoming them will bring the rocket closer to its planned launch this   summer. Artemis 1 is a mission without a crew. Its aim is to fly beyond the moon and then return to Earth. That`ll be the first in a series of $4   billion missions to ultimately put people back on the moon in 2025. But according to Space.com, that date could be pushed back again because of unexpected challenges like the COVID pandemic that NASA says have caused   delays and cost increases. A 21st century space race is hurtling forward. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ISA SOARES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Lifting off from their satellite launch center in the Gobi Desert, China rocketed three astronauts   towards the country`s new space station. The crew will now live and work there for 183 days. It`s China`s longest mission yet and a major step in   the country`s young space program, quickly becoming one of the world`s most advanced. Though China arrived late to space exploration, the government   has been investing billions of dollars in its advancement. In the past three years, Chinese missions have brought rock samples from the moon back to Earth for the first time in 40 years, successfully landed   an exploratory rover on the far side of the moon and then one on Mars. They were only the second country to do so. The United States unsurprisingly   came first. But America`s cosmological dominance could soon be challenged by China as well as other space ambitious nations. As its space program expands, the United Arab Emirates also reach Mars though their mission didn`t touch the surface. The UAE scientific satellite   began orbiting the Red Planet in February. The country also plans to send an un-crewed spacecraft to the moon in 2024. India hopes to do the same in 2022. After a failed attempt in 2019, the country has been inching towards a new date for the unmanned lunar landing.   India`s prime minister is also encouraging the private sector to help the country`s space ambitions, following the U.S. in a pivot towards   commercializing space. Another with lunar ambitions is the European Space Agency, which is working to develop a moon lander. The ESA also has probes currently exploring the   solar system. Still a player in space, Russia is planning a collaborative asteroid mission joining forces with China for a robotic probe set for 2024. They   are also hoping to launch an automatic lunar station in July. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Touchdown confirmed. SOARES:  And in a first both for space and cinema, a Russian film crew returned to earth after shooting scenes on the International Space Station   for the first ever movie partly filmed in space. As a whole however, Russia`s space program has dwindled from decades ago, when the Soviet Union   launched the first satellite into space. In the meantime, Russia`s former space rival has grown more ambitious. NASA has sent five rovers to explore the surface of Mars, just launched a 12-  year mission to explore asteroids, and says it will soon land the first woman and first person of color on the moon. As advancements unfold, the space race is much changed from its former standoff era, now mixing contests with collaboration. Take a look at the   crew on the International Space Station -- astronauts from the United States, Japan, Belarus, France and Russia high above geopolitics, a truly   international cooperation at the helm of humanity`s next frontier. Isa Soares, CNN. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Experts say fully autonomous or driverless car technology is still in its infancy. There is a long and likely bumpy road to travel before   people can get in cars that totally drive themselves. One challenge regulators face is whom to blame when a driverless car does something   wrong. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  It`s surreal enough to know there`s a driverless ride service operating in San Francisco. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I cannot believe this is happening. MOOS:  But imagine you`re the police pulling over a car and finding no one behind the wheel. Who you`re going to ticket? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Ain`t nobody in it. MOOS:  A San Francisco police officer tried to open the door. The passerby who shot the video said the window did roll down. Everyone`s favorite part   --   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This is the great part. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Cop goes back to his car. Robo taxi says see you. Drives off. MOOS:  The Chevy Volt cruises through the intersection and then again pulls over and puts on its flashers. Driverless car appears to flee the scene, read one headline. But the company Cruise that runs the ride service says, our autonomous vehicle   yielded to the police vehicle, then pulled over to the nearest safe location for the traffic stop as intended. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Are you serious? (INAUDIBLE) MOOS:  An officer kept reaching inside the car trying in vain to turn on the headlights. The fact that they were off was what police say led to the   traffic stop. A company spokesperson says human error led to the lights being off. No ticket was issued. Police said that during the stop, they made contact by   phone with the remote operator. The driverless cars have nicknames like Poppy. The one that got pulled over is named Rigatoni. And for a minute, Rigatoni looked like it was in hot   water. Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  They need to name more of them after pasta. It makes for great excuses if they try to get pasta police. It was just a rotini infraction.   it was on its way to the papardelle to spaghetti, some lasagna that`s gotten ravioli reviews when it took things a little too far follow like a   linguine and you recorded its taglioni (ph). Please, Officer, give it a pizzo charity. Then it`ll be up to the kappa toppy to decide if it gets cooked. Winter Haven High School is watching today. Shout-out to our viewers from Winter Haven, Florida, and thank you for subscribing and leaving a comment   on our YouTube channel. I`m Carl Azuz. END     

Date: 2022-04-14
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  E15 gasoline, what does it mean? That`s what we`re explaining first today. I`m Carl Azuz. Shortly after the inflation report we told you about yesterday came out, U.S. President Joe Biden traveled to Iowa to discuss the American economy.   He acknowledged, quote, everything is going up, referring specifically to the prices of gasoline and food. And as he`s done in recent weeks,   President Biden blamed Russian President Vladimir Putin and his decision to invade Ukraine on February 24th for the spike in gas prices. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  Your family budget, your ability to fill up your tank, none of it should hinge on whether a dictator   declares war and commits genocide a half a world away. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  The president said 70 percent of the gas price increase in March was because of the war in Ukraine, but gas had climbed steadily throughout last   year before the Russian invasion took place. On average, prices rose almost a dollar per gallon between January and December, and President Biden`s   critics have blamed his energy policies for contributing to these higher prices. In Tuesday`s speech, the president announced one action he was taking to address America`s soaring fuel costs is removing the government`s   summertime ban on E15 gas. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) BIDEN:  E15 is about 10 cents a gallon cheaper than E10, and some gas stations offer an even bigger discount than that. But many of the gas   stations that sell it here in Iowa, Illinois, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania are required to stop selling in the summer. But with this   waiver, on June 1, you`re not going to show up at your local gas station and see a bag over the pump that has the cheapest gas. You`re going to be   able to keep filling up with E15 and it`s going to solve the whole problem. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  How much so? Filling up a small car`s tank with cheaper E15 gas could save drivers about a dollar. For larger trucks and SUVs, it could   save $2 to $3 per fill-up. The E stands for ethanol, a plant-based fuel usually made from corn. The 15 means 15 percent of the gasoline blend can contain ethanol instead of the   10 percent that could be used in regular E10 gasoline. Using more ethanol means using less crude oil which is the biggest factor in the cost of gas.   So that`s why E15 is cheaper. But there are drawbacks to the president`s plan. For one thing, E15 doesn`t have as much energy as E10 gas. So, if they get less mileage from it,   drivers might have to buy E15 more often. Higher amounts of ethanol can create more ground level smog which can be harmful to people with breathing   problems. That`s why the government usually bans E15 in the summertime. And experts say fewer than 2 percent of America`s gas stations actually sell   E15 gas, so this is not expected to have a noticeable impact nationwide. Last month, President Biden announced a historic release of fuel one million barrels per day from America`s strategic petroleum reserve an   emergency storage of oil. This didn`t have a significant impact on gas prices but Biden administration officials said it would ensure the U.S. had   enough gas supplies. From gas to masks, the Biden administration says Americans traveling on planes trains and public transportation will be required to wear masks for   another 15 days. That requirement had been set to expire on April 19th. It`s been extended at least until May 3rd. Several universities are   reinstating their mask mandates as well. The Centers for Disease Control says it`s monitoring new COVID cases which are rising again in 26 states. An airline trade group says it makes no   sense to require masks on a plane when they`re not required in restaurants or sports stadiums, despite those places not having protective air   filtration. COVID hospitalizations are at record low levels in America and COVID-related deaths are decreasing as well. Meantime, China maintains its heavy-handed response to the virus. (BGIN VIDEOTAPE) DAVID CULVER, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  You`d never expect to see people in Shanghai, China`s most affluent and cosmopolitan city screaming for food.   We are starving. We are starving they yell. But after weeks-long COVID lockdown with no promised end, desperation. One community volunteer recording the home of an elderly woman. She says neighbors heard the 90-year-old shouting help for three days, pleading for   food. Her fridge empty. Volunteers were finally able to get her a meal. China`s central government now in charge of managing Shanghai`s COVID outbreak. In a month`s time, the daily case count went from double digits   to more than 26,000. A Shanghai City leader choked up at a news conference over the weekend, apologizing to Shanghai`s more than 25 million residents for failing to   meet expectations and promising improvements. Those of us living here kept to our homes. CNN, the only U.S. TV network with a team living through the lockdown. In my community, we`re only   allowed out when summoned by workers using a megaphone and when dark out, a flashlight. Get in a late evening now request to go get a COVID test. My neighbors and I line up, ready for health workers to scan our QR codes, which link the   results to our ID, night or day. The testing is constant. Someone in the community tested positive so they`ll test now each of us once again. We can also leave the house to line up for government   distributions or to get approved deliveries, usually the most exciting part of the day. It looks to be vacuum sealed pork and then several boxes of traditional Chinese medicine. A bunch more face masks, a box that has a bunch of fresh   fruit. On top, they have some frozen meat and then two antigen kits. Food deliveries this plentiful are rare, so most of us spend our mornings trying   to order groceries online but orders sell out quickly not enough delivery drivers to get through the lockdown barriers communities like mine   resorting to group buys. We come together in chat groups and try to source food directly from suppliers in bulk. Neighbors helping neighbors is a common theme across the city we found a safe drop spot to trade cheese for oranges our community`s volunteers help   us source food where they can though they too are exhausted and hungry. From above, you see this metropolis, quiet, eerily empty. But on the ground, there are tragedies shared daily online. All of this as a result of   China`s zero COVID policy, a directive from the top. President Xi Jinping on Friday praising China`s zero COVID approach. State media echoing a glowing narrative, showing an orderly mobilization in   Shanghai with an abundant food supply and rapid construction of more than 100 makeshift hospitals with capacity to treat more than 150,000 people   infected. But patients taken to those government quarantine centers sharing a very different reality online, posting videos of unsanitary conditions and   people using isolation facilities still under construction. Some seen frantically running at distribution sites, scrambling for food and   blankets. The uncertainty leaving this man broken, doing the unthinkable questioning the leadership aloud asking, where is the communist party? (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: What planet is believed to have the strongest winds in the solar system? Neptune, Venus, Saturn, or Earth? According to NASA, Neptune`s sustained winds can travel faster than the speed of sound. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Some new observations of Neptune have scientists scratching their heads. Astronomers at Britain`s University of Leicester say the most   distant planet has been seeing dramatic temperature changes. They looked at infrared images from several telescopes and they used the light they could   see to draw conclusions about the planet`s temperature. Neptune`s seasons each last about 40 Earth years and the distant planet entered summer in   2005. So, scientists were expecting to see indications that Neptune was heating up. Instead, they observed an overall drop in Neptune`s temperatures by 14 degrees Fahrenheit between the years of 2003 and 2018. But then, they say a   dramatic warming event took place on the planet`s South Pole from 2018 to 2020. And because that increase was by an estimated 20 degrees, it   reportedly reversed any cooling the rest of the planet saw before then. So, is now a good time to visit? No, it`s still frigid, violent and mostly made of gas. But scientists are hoping the new observations will help them   better understand the mysterious planet. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  When motion sensors and doorbell cameras are triggered overnight, this is probably not what you expect them to pick up. But a flock of sheep   recently incited some technological mayhem in the United Kingdom. This video of it was posted anonymously to the sharing site YappApp. The animals are said to have woken up quite a few people in the neighborhood. So, the question is, did people count them to get back to   sheep -- sleep? Of course, if they couldn`t, they could have snagged a midnight snack. It`s like delivery with Uber bleats. There`s mutton wrong   with haggis. True, some might lambaste or completely shun the idea saying you can`t Willy be serious, but it`s tough to beat if you can stomach it. Pendleton High School in Pendleton, Oregon, gets today`s shout-out. Carl, how did they do that? They subscribed and left a comment on our YouTube   Channel. I`m Carl Azuz for CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-04-15
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  You made it to Friday. Awesome. We are exactly halfway through the month of April and we`re glad you found time to watch   our show. I`m Carl Azuz. One of the worst storms in the history of South Africa, that`s how a local government on the nation`s east coast describes a subtropical system named   Issa. It was a slow-moving storm. It hit the province of KwaZulu-Natal, which includes the city of Durban, home to more than 3 million people and   Issa`s sluggish pace gave it plenty of time to drop heavy rains on the region. They began on Monday and brought several months` worth of   precipitation to the area over just a few days. So, flooding along South Africa`s East Coast has been tremendous. Mudslides have flowed downhill. Buildings have collapsed. Cracks widened into deep   fissures destroying roads. Homes have been lost and officials say more than 300 people have been killed. Rescue teams have been digging through mud and rubble to save lives. Most of the shipping containers that arrive in Southern Africa are processed   through the port of Durban, and when the weakened ground gave way, a large stack of containers could be seen collapsing into the muddy waters around   it. Electrical crews have been working around the clock to restore power, but the flooding has been so bad around some stations that workers haven`t   been able to get to them. Officials say water mains have also been damaged and the local government is asking for the South African national defense force to help provide   support from the air. Is there any end in sight? Well, the rain did let up for a while on Thursday, bringing some relief. But with a cold front expected to stall   over South Africa`s east coast this weekend, more rain is in the forecast. Unfortunately, this isn`t the only disaster threatening the African continent. Another one that could become widespread stems from a conflict   that`s thousands of miles north. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  The early starts and the intense work at the Phillips Attiquila (ph) bakery in Lagos   used to be worth it, used to be profitable. ABIGAIL OLUFUNMILAYO PHILLIPS, BAKERY MANAGER:  So entirely this year, precisely around the time of the bombing of Ukraine, it has affected the   supply of yeast, which has affected our primary item of production, which is a white wheat loaf. Our flow has been very expensive. The prices are   changing constantly. MCKENZIE:  Now, they can only afford to produce half of what they did and each tin gets less dough. This war is horrifying for Ukraine`s people, it could be devastating for global food security. Russia and Ukraine are agricultural export powerhouses. On the field of battle, farmers will struggle to plant crops. With export ports blockaded   by Russian warships, it has pushed the prices even higher.   So, the 10 hours Mariam Arikoke (ph) spends selling bread won`t be enough to feed her two children. She says customers don`t have the cash anymore.   They often refuse to pay the going rate. And even on the fertile slopes of Mount Kenya, they are hurting. Caroline Kimarua (ph) had to slash a workforce the cost of fertilizer for her tea and coffee plantations has doubled in recent months. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  You have no money to buy that fertilizer at that high cost. MCKENZIE:  And Russia is one of the world`s biggest fertilizer producers. Sanctions and trade disruptions are likely to push prices even higher. Could this be any worse timed? WANDILE SIHLOBO, CHIEF ECONOMIST, AGRICULTURE BUSINESS CHAMBER OF SOUTH AFRICA:  The war is starting at one of the worst times because we were   already thinking we are in a recovery mode. On top of that, there were already inflation pressures that were across the world. Africans are   spending a lot on fuel and spending a lot on food. Then in this current moment, this is a tough time for the continent. MCKENZIE:  The impact of this conflict is coming on top of already soaring global grain prices. And if you look at this map over here,, of course,   countries across the world could feel the pain, but economists point to specific African countries like Senegal, which imports more than percent of   its wheat from Ukraine and Russia and Somalia which imports more than 90 percent. And in Somalia, already suffering from generational drought if the rains fail again, the war in Europe could push this crisis into a catastrophe   even into famine. Aid agencies depend heavily on grain from Ukraine. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Who invented the exercise called the burpee? James Naismith, Vince Lombardi, Pat Summitt, or Royal Burpee? Yes, it was an exercise physiologist and YMCA director named Royal Burpee who brought us the exercise. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Whether or not burpees are part of your routine, new research suggests even a little exercise has another benefit to our health. It might   significantly lower the risk of depression. First, how much is a little exercise? Currently, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control recommends Americans spend two and a half hours every week   taking part in an aerobic activity, like a fast-paced walk. Runners can cut that time in half. And in addition, the CDC says we should work out all   major muscle groups twice a week. The benefits are well-documented. Exercise can lower stress reduce anxiety improve sleep protect us against heart problems and diabetes. But new   research that looked at 15 other studies found that adults who walked 75 minutes a week, half the government`s recommended level, had a risk of   depression that was 18 percent lower than those who don`t exercise at all. The risk was 25 percent lower for people who followed the recommended   amount but working out more than that didn`t improve depression rates. So, what`s the big conclusion here? In short, we should get off the couch and move. The authors of the study which was published this week in the   journal "JAMA Psychiatry" say it can help health experts give guidance to people who can`t find the time to follow the CDC`s recommendations. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Eight years ago, a rock smacked into the northeast coast of Papua New Guinea. Cool story, bro, but this was CNEOS 2014-01-08, what   researchers believe was a meteor and an interstellar one at that. Meaning it`s thought to have come from outside the solar system. They haven`t   actually seen or examined it so how do they know any of this? Well, Amir Suraj, the person who first observed it, calculated that it was traveling at 37.3 miles per second. And when he mapped out its trajectory,   he found this meteor wasn`t orbiting the sun as others do but that it probably came from outside the solar system. Years after his discovery was made, U.S. Space Command just confirmed the meteor was likely interstellar. Scientists hope to publish their findings   and maybe get the chance to find the rock. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHAD MYERS, CNN WEATHER CORRESPONDENT:  We get questions here all the time about comets, asteroids and meteors, meteorites. What`s the difference? Well, let`s start in space and work our way all the way down to the surface. A comet is a snowball. It`s a piece of ice. Now the ice is mainly   frozen gas not water but there could be dust and rocks and things inside the comet. Haley`s Comet, now NASA knows of about 3,600 other comets than   that one out there. Closer in in the asteroid belt, these are rocks, not gas. They could be metal as well but they are hard surfaces and sometimes they come out of the   asteroid belt get closer to the surface of the earth or at least our atmosphere. If one or a piece of a smaller one called a meteoroid hits the surface of the atmosphere, it turns into a meteor. It gets bright because it hits our   atmosphere and begins to burn up. If it doesn`t make its way all the way down to the surface it turns into a shooting star. Now if it does make its way all the way down to the surface of the earth and hits the ground and you can pick it up, that is a meteorite. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Of course, if they couldn`t, they could have snagged a midnight snack. It`s like delivery with Uber bleats. There`s mutton wrong with   haggis, true, some might lambaste or completely shun the idea saying you can`t woolly be serious, but it`s tough to bleed if you can stomach it. Pendleton High School in Pendleton, Oregon, gets today`s shout out. Carl, how did they do that? They subscribed and left a comment on our YouTube   channel. I`m Carl Azuz for CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-04-18
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. I`m Carl Azuz for CNN 10.  We`ve got something special lined up for you today. This show is centered on a single big topic because in the business world, there are few bigger   topics than Amazon. In 1995, the company had launched as a retail website that sold books and not much else. From there -- well, it`s grown a bit.  Amazon sells most of the stuff you can buy at a mall, at a grocery store and a lot of other types of stores too. It offers online content, cloud   computing, movies, music, and it not only still sells books, it helps people publish them.  Today, Amazon is one of the top five most valuable companies on the planet. It`s worth more than $1.5 trillion, and it grew that big in a relatively   short amount of time. Its founder, Jeff Bezos, with a net worth of more than billion dollars according to the "Forbes" business magazine.  However, the company he founded has seen its share of bumps in the road. Amazon has been criticized in the past for what it paid its employees.   Three years ago, the average salary for an Amazon employee was $28,000 per year. That was $20,000 less than the average yearly salary in America.   Amazon has raised its minimum wage to fifteen an hour for all employees since then.  As people spent more time shopping online and less in retail stores, the infamous Amazon effect occurred in America, with thousands of physical   stores shutting down and tens of thousands of retail jobs lost. And while Alexa, Amazon`s virtual artificial intelligence assistant has found a place   in many homes in recent years, privacy advocates have raised concerns about smart speakers because they`re always listening. As a company, Amazon is massive. Even as other businesses laid off employees because of the effects of the coronavirus pandemic, Amazon grew   tremendously, hiring half a million people in 2020, increasing its workforce to more than one million two hundred thousand.  It`s a complicated company like some of the challenges it`s faced. It`s also changed the way the world buys goods. (BEGIN VIDEOTAE) DILIP KUMAR, VP, AMAZON GO AND AMAZON BOOKS:  Welcome. So I`ve been here. Amazon goes the ultimate grab-and-go shopping experience. RACHEL CRANE, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Right. It`s, literally, grab it off the shelves and go. KUMAR:  You use the app to enter the store. Once you`re in, you can put the phone away. And you shop the rest of the store just like you would any   other store, with one key difference, when you`re done, you could just walk out. CRANE (voice-over):  Nothing is simple about the technology behind this cashier-less store. The Amazon Go market uses artificial intelligence to   monitor what you`ve reached for on the shelf, and to make sure you`re charged for what you walked out with and nothing else. KUMAR:  What we had to do unique in this use case was build the sensors, the cameras. CRANE:  All these cameras, the sensors --   KUMAR:  The cameras -- the cameras in the ceiling. We had to build a specific machine learning algorithms.  The problem that we have to solve in Amazon Go is who took what? When I take this item off the shelf, it`s in my virtual cart. When I put it back,   the item goes back. CRANE:  Uh-huh. KUMAR:  It`s an easy problem to solve when you have a single person in the store. But when there`s multiple people. A lot of products if you look   around look very similar to each other.  CRANE:  Right. KUMAR:  So that`s where the challenge comes in. CRANE:  The Amazon Go store is by no means the only place where Amazon uses AI. PETER LARSEN, VP, AMAZON DELIVERY TECHNOLOGY:  We`ve got hundreds of teams working on artificial intelligence programs across Amazon. Artificial   intelligence like machine learning powers the simplicity that we always want to offer to our customers.  CRANE:  Whether it`s fulfilling orders or delivering packages, those teams are working constantly to improve the customers` experience. Inside Amazon`s warehouses, AI is hard at work. These are Amazon robotics drive units. BELINDA WORLEY, SR. PRODUCT MANAGER, AMAZON ROBOTICS:  Once a customer actually purchases an item either on their mobile app or on their computer   or laptop, the system identifies the pod where the item is actually located in a field and the bot maps out the most efficient way through using   machine learning to get that pod which has that item that that customer purchased to the associate. CRANE:  So there`s some people out there that will hear robots, machine learning, AI and think jobs, they`re going to be gone. WORLEY:  What we`ve actually determined when we`ve actually deployed our solutions in our fulfillment networks is that we actually are relying a lot   more on our associates. We`ve increased their efficiency, and it really gives them the ability to work on different tasks, and we`ve actually grown   our associate employments across the globe to date. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Alexa, order dog biscuits. CRANE:  And, of course --   ALEXA:  One moment.  CRANE:  The AI tool you`re most familiar with --   ALEXA:  Here`s what I found. CRANE:  -- is always learning new tricks. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Achieving what Alexa is right now is a super hard challenge. Going from that to the future, I would like Alexa to respond to   the -- your mood, your sentiment, your feelings as expressed in your speech. The one key advantage we have is we now have so much more data.  So is it a big challenge? Yes. Are we up to that challenge? Heck yes. CRANE:  An evolution of Alexa, is it still in its infancy? Is it a toddler now or is she a toddler now, an adolescent, teenager? Certainly hasn`t   graduated from college. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  No, AI hasn`t graduated from college overall, right? And I think AI as a field is in its infancy. Think of it as a older   toddler, you know, who`s going to grow up to be an adult that just stuns us with her brilliance, right, is where we are. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JON SARLIN, CNNMONEY PRODUCER:  Is Amazon a monopoly? Well, it`s not really an easy question to answer. First, you have to understand what the core tenet of Jeff Bezos`s business philosophy is -- patience. Go back to the original letter that Jeff Bezos   wrote investors in 1997. He wrote that investors to Amazon shouldn`t expect Amazon to operate like most companies because Amazon wouldn`t judge itself   by short-term profits, you know, the thing that almost every other company cares about, only the long-term. And Bezos and Amazon stayed true to that. Its first few years, Amazon barely made a profit. It invested billions of dollars back into the   business and it just kept growing and growing and growing and growing. And now, that patience has paid off with incredible profits over the last few   years. We all know on some level what a monopoly is. We`ve played the game, but in the context of antitrust law, it`s a specific thing it`s meant to stop a   company from forming they can dominate the market in such a way that competition is impossible. Those who do not think Amazon is a monopoly say   that because Amazon is offering its customers lower prices, it can`t possibly be an anti-trust case.  Those low prices are a benefit to consumer welfare and it would be impossible to regulate exactly how low is too low for prices. DAVID BALTO, FORMER FTC ASSISTANT DIRECTOR:  The load star of antitrust enforcement is how are consumers affected? Do consumers pay more? Do they   have less choice? Then, it`s time for the antitrust cops to get on the beat. SARLIN:  This is David Balto. He worked on antitrust cases for the Justice Department and the FTC for years and is skeptical about Amazon being a   monopoly. BALTO:  When consumers are paying less and have a greater amount of choice, which seems to be the simple message from Amazon`s business model, there`s   not a reason for intense antitrust scrutiny.  SARLIN:  But some say that business model is a direct threat to customers. This is Lina Khan. She`s a lawyer who has really helped shape the debate around Amazon and antitrust law.  To people like her, Amazon`s willingness to sustain massive losses isn`t just a savvy business move. It`s an example of predatory pricing. LINA KHAN, DIRECTOR OF LEGAL POLICY OF OPEN MARKETS INSTITUTE: So predatory pricing is when a company prices a good below cost and is doing so   basically in order to drive out its competitors so that it is able to kind of enjoy a dominant place in the market.  SARLIN:  All of those things are a really high bar for the government to prove and because of that, a successful case on predatory pricing hasn`t   been litigated in decades.  BALTO:  That`s not for a lack of will. We certainly at the FTC and the Clinton administration had predatory pricing investigations. But at the end   of the day, you have to convince yourself that consumers would be better off if you stop these practices, and that`s like looking for a unicorn.  SARLIN:  But to those who do think Amazon right now is acting as a monopoly, the government`s view of predatory pricing is outdated.  KHAN:  The reality is with tech companies, you have a marketplace where that is winner take all. So if you`re a Facebook or an Amazon or a Google,   your main goal is to try and acquire as many users as possible at the very earliest stages because once you have a lot of users, it`s going to be much   more difficult for rivals to divert users away from you.  And so, in that scenario, predatory pricing actually becomes very rational.  SARLIN:  It`s important to note that the question of predatory pricing is really only one of the questions surrounding Amazon. There are also   concerns about just how large Amazon has become as a business. KHAN:  So in addition to be an online retailer, it also is a huge content producer, is a book publisher, it has a huge cloud computing service. The   fact that Amazon is involved in all these different lines of business positions it to use its dominance in the online space in order to benefit   its other lines of businesses. And I think that`s something that`s really problematic. BALTO:  What we want from a consumer`s perspective is for those people who provide services for us to use the bargaining leverage of having all those   customers to lower costs as much as possible and that`s fundamentally what Amazon has done. SARLIN:  So whether Amazon has an unfair advantage over its competitors, whether it`s a monopoly, all those things are an open debate. But what is   not a debate is, right now, Amazon is winning. (END VIDEOTAPE) END     

Date: 2022-04-19
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Could a potential conflict over the island of Taiwan spill over onto islands that are part of Japan? That is the question we`re exploring first on today`s show. I`m Carl Azuz. Thank you for watching. Taiwan is located about a hundred miles east of mainland China, and the governments of those two places have been at odds for decades. When China`s   communist party won a civil war in the 1940s, the nation`s previous government was forced to flee to Taiwan. Today, the island sees itself as   an independent democracy. China sees it as part of the mainland and therefore subject to China`s communist government. So, the two sides have an ongoing dispute they are not at war at this point. But after Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24th, some experts have   said China might be considering a similar operation in Taiwan. No one knows for sure if that`s going to happen but there has been a lot of political   and military activity around the island. A group of U.S. lawmakers recently visited Taiwan for a show of support for it. China called that trip provocative and responded by holding military   drills near the island with ships, bombers and fighter planes. So, what does this have to do with Japan? Well, like the U.S., Japan supports Taiwan. It does not want China`s government to take over the island and Japan doesn`t like what it sees when   it comes to Chinese military patrols. Twenty years ago, the Japanese government says it counted fewer than 20 Chinese warships sailing near Japanese islands. Last year, that number   jumped to more than 70, and the Japanese who live on their country`s westernmost islands are much closer to Taiwan than Tokyo, the Japanese   capital. So, they`re deeply concerned about what could happen if China makes a move against Taiwan. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BLAKE ESSIG, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  For the past years, Kazushi Kinjo has made a living fishing the water surrounding Japan`s Nansei   Islands. That includes the uninhabited group of islands known as the Senkakus in Japan and Diaoyu in China. When he started, Kinjo says he never saw Chinese ships, but in the last few years --   KAZUSHI KINJO, JAPANESE FISHERMAN (through translator):  You can see it in the video. The bow of one of their ships was pointed straight at us and   they were chasing us. ESSIG:  Dangerous encounters specifically around the contested Senkaku Islands the Kinjo says are guaranteed. KINJO:  I don`t know for sure. But I also saw what looked like cannons. Looking back, they definitely could have shot at us if they`d wanted to. I   felt that fear. ESSIG:  In response to CNN, China`s ministry of foreign affairs says it`s carrying out law enforcement duties in its territory but it`s not just the   Chinese coast guard trolling these contested waters. Japanese and senior U.S. defense officials say Chinese warships are routinely patrolling   Japanese territorial waters in the waters near Taiwan. And according to one of the men in charge with defending Japan, that increased activity isn`t   limited to the sea. From where I`m walking on the shores of Japan`s Yonaguni Island, the east coast of Taiwan is only kilometers away. It`s so close that on a clear day,   you can actually see it. It`s this stretch of water it`s been viewed as a potential battleground if China invades Taiwan. It`s that close proximity that has Japanese officials claiming Taiwan`s peace and stability is directly connected to Japan`s. A security threat   amplified by the ongoing nuclear threat posed by North Korea and a growing fear that China may try to take control of land the Japanese government   claims is inherently theirs. GEN. YOSHIHIDE YOSHIDA, CHIEF OF STAFF, JAPAN`S GROUND SELF-DEFENSE FORCE (through translator):  Japan`s territorial sovereignty extends to the   Nansei Islands and I`m afraid that may be infringed in the future. ESSIG: It`s for those reasons that General Yoshihide Yoshida says defending the Nansei Islands is a top priority. The Nansei Islands consist of these 198 islands. Since 2016, in a clear departure from Japan`s post-World War II pacifism, Japan`s self-defense   force has increased its footprint, building bases on Amami Oshima, Miyakojima and Yonaguni. Ishigaki is next. How confident are you in Japan`s ability to defend itself? YOSHIDA:  We are enhancing our capabilities but our competitors are also enhancing their capabilities at an extremely fast pace. It will be very   difficult to maintain our deterrence and response capabilities unless we further increase our military capacity. ESSIG:  Back on Yonaguni, the Russian invasion of Ukraine is sparking fears that China could be emboldened to act off Japan`s shores. KINJO:  The people are terrified of the situation that`s happening. I think that the Senkaku issue and the Taiwan contingency are similar to the   Ukrainian issue. I have a strong sense of crisis that this island will eventually cease to be Japan. ESSIG:  But in the face of geopolitical concerns well out of his control, Kinjo and his crew do what they know, they prepare for another day at sea. Blake Essig, CNN, Yonaguni, Japan. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these airlines was founded first? Southwest, Spirit, Frontier or JetBlue? Dating back to 1967, Southwest is by far the oldest airline on this list. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  As demand for airline travel increases this summer, along with ticket prices, one challenge airlines are facing is pilot fatigue. An   airline pilots association says that`s the number one safety threat for Southwest Airlines but that`s not the only company whose employees say   they`re exhausted. Airline travel hasn`t completely recovered from the COVID pandemic, but it`s getting there. U.S. government data shows that this month, there were   about 90 percent of the travelers there were in 2019. But there`s an ongoing shortage of pilots. Thousands of them retired during the pandemic.   Others have complained of not enough pay, long and expensive training, being put on leave without pay and COVID vaccine requirements. The federal government has rules about how much airline pilots can fly. Those are set at 30 hours max in the air each week, and at least hours of   rest in between shifts. But pilots say changes because of weather, delays and other issues are taking their toll. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PETE MUNTEAN, CNN AVIATION CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  It is the latest challenge to your next trip -- understaffed airlines and overworked flight   crews causing carriers to cancel flights. After hundreds of cancellations last weekend, JetBlue announced it is cutting eight to ten percent of its   summer schedule, citing a challenging staffing situation. The latest numbers show that airlines are still shy more than thirty thousand workers   compared to before the pandemic. HENRY HARTEVELDT, ATMOSPHERE RESEARCH GROUP:  There`s a lot of burnout and especially among some work groups. I`m hearing from folks saying, I just   can`t take it anymore. MUNTEAN:  Crew shortages are hitting airlines large and small. Alaska Airlines is cancelling two percent of its flights through June. Delta   pilots say they are being pushed to the limit on a regular basis. EVAN BAACH, AIR LINE PILOTS ASSOCIATION:  Longer days with shorter nights at home, shorter layovers and our pilots are tired and fatigued. MUNTEAN:  Pilot reports of fatigue spiked at Southwest Airlines last month. Their union says the company is struggling to retain its newest hires. CASEY MURRAY, PRESIDENT, SOUTHWEST AIRLINES PILOTS ASSOCIATION:  This is going to be a critical issue every month and every year that we move   forward. MUNTEAN:  Help comes in the form of sky-high hiring goals. Delta wants to hire 200 new pilots each month. JetBlue has already hired 3,000 new crew   this year alone. United Airlines came up with a different solution, opening up its own flight school, a first for any major airline in the United States. SCOTT KIRBY, UNITED AIRLINES:  The pilot shortage is real. We can hire pilots at United Airlines, but the regional airlines and smaller airlines   or have a real pilot shortage and are having real challenges. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  For 10 out of 10, Toby Keith is the oldest dog in the world. That`s not a knock on the country singer. Toby Keith is also the name of a   Chihuahua, this Chihuahua, which Guinness World Record says is the oldest canine alive. He was adopted from a shelter a few months after he was born   on January 9th 2001, which means Toby Keith recently celebrated his 21st birthday and he`s said to be in good health though he spends a lot of time   sleeping. When that dog growls at the door, you better let the old man in. He`s probably thinking how do you like me now? Every dog has its day, I`m   unleashed and I want to talk about me. Don`t pull my chain, I was made in America longer ago than any other and I never thought I should have been a   cowboy. I`m Carl Azuz. Today`s shout-out goes out to Mancelona High School. It is great to see you watching from Mancelona, Michigan. Our YouTube channel at youtube.com/CNN10 is the only place we look for shout-out schools. END     

Date: 2022-04-20
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  For anyone who`s ever had problems telling twins and triplets apart, is color coding them the answer? Thankfully, that will   be explained on today`s show. I`m Carl Azuz. The first story we`re unmasking in today`s down the middle coverage involves face masks themselves. Suddenly, they`re no longer required on   public transportation in the United States. But that`s a court`s decision, not the federal government`s. Last week, we told you how the Biden administration had extended the mass mandate for people traveling on planes, trains and other forms of public   transit. The rule had been set to expire on April 19th. The Centers for Disease Control extended the requirement until at least May 3rd. But this week, a federal judge struck down the rule, saying it was unlawful because it went beyond the CDC`s authority and didn`t follow the usual   steps for new government requirements. So does this mean the mandate is done, gone, finito for public transportation? We don`t know yet. The Biden administration can still appeal the court`s decision, which it called disappointing. It says the Justice Department   will be reviewing it and deciding what to do next. Meantime, the White House and the CDC say they still recommend wearing masks on public transportation, but several airlines, some of which   strongly criticized the government`s mask requirements were quick to tell travelers that masks were no longer needed on flights. When some passengers   heard this, they said they`d still keep their masks on while others who were aboard flights at the time cheered. Some other transportation companies like Uber, Lyft and Amtrak have also dropped their mask requirements, though they say passengers and operators   can still choose to wear them. Opponents of the ruling have said it obstructs the government`s efforts to respond to the COVID pandemic and   protect people who need it most. Supporters have said it`s a win for freedom and for people on public transportation who`ve been miserable while wearing masks. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PETE MUNTEAN, CNN AVIATION CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  A surprise court ruling has ended the transportation mask mandate for now. U.S. District   Judge Kathryn Kimball Mizell said she does not need another hearing to decide that the rule exceeds the CDC`s authority. Mizell`s Monday ruling first threw the travel industry into disarray. But now, a growing list of airlines confirmed mass are no longer required on   their flights. The federal government began requiring mass on planes, trains, buses, boats and in terminals starting in February 2021. Last week, the Biden   administration once again extended the rule to expire on May 3rd, citing a rise in coronavirus cases. But only hours prior, the airline industry`s top lobby wrote the White House to say the mandate must end. ED BASTIAN, CEO, DELTA AIRLINES:  We`ve done it for two years and it`s time to move beyond that and now make that the responsibility of individuals. P.A. ANNOUNCER:  These coverings are required at all times. MUNTEAN:  Judge Mizell was appointed to federal district court in by then- President Donald Trump. In her ruling, Mizell said travelers have been, quote, forcibly removed from their airplane seats, denied boarding at the   bus steps and turned away at the train station doors, likening it to, quote, detention and quarantine. Immediately following her decision, passengers at airports across the country continued wearing masks, unaware of the ruling. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Hopefully, it ends. DAVIDA WRIGHT, PASSENGER:  I`ll always wear my mask. I lost my grandmother to COVID a year ago and so, I`m very particular about the mask. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Up next, it`s been almost two months since Russian military forces invaded neighboring Ukraine and the battlefield is changing. For one thing,   Russia has been unable to capture the Ukrainian capital in the north. U.S. officials say that`s because of apparent tactical mistakes by Russian   forces and fierce resistance by Ukrainian fighters. So, now, Russia`s concentrating its fight on eastern Ukraine in what a Ukrainian official calls the second phase of the war. With the change in tactics comes a new weapons shipment from the United States, this one worth $800 million. We`ve reported on numerous American   contributions like this. The U.S. has sent billions to support Ukraine even though, it`s not part of the NATO alliance that America is a key member of. How is Russia responding to these shipments? (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  The first shipments of that new more heavy-duty military assistance for Ukraine started arriving in the   region over the weekend. But there is already concern that more equipment may be needed soon. A U.S. official said there is growing concerns about the ammunition inventory of the Ukrainians. As it`s expected that heavy ground combat will   be picking up in the coming days in eastern Ukraine. Now, this new round of million dollars` worth of security assistance includes 18 howitzers and 40,000 artillery rounds. But a source said that   those could be expended and used in just a matter of days. Now, the Pentagon has been working trying to address how to arm the Ukrainians faster. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, as well as chairman of   the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Mark Milley, have held daily calls with their counterparts in the region, urging them to ship more supplies and   equipment into Ukraine. Now, Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelenskyy told our colleague Jake Tapper that he`s appreciative of this new military assistance, but said that much   more is needed and will be needed in the coming weeks. Now, at the same time, Russia has been protesting the U.S., sending this type of equipment   into Ukraine, sending a diplomatic note to the State Department, warning of, quote, unpredictable consequences if they keep arming the Ukrainians. But for the time being, the U.S. does not appear to be deterred in any way from providing these this type of weaponry to Ukraine, and they`re adapting   the kinds of weapons that they are sending -- sending more sophisticated and heavy duty equipment and weaponry into Ukraine even after some   administration officials had earlier been hesitant to do so, worrying that it could pose a greater risk of escalation. But it`s clear that the U.S. is listening to the demands of the Ukrainians, in trying to fulfill their needs as quickly as possible acknowledging that   more may be on the way as well. Arlette Saenz, CNN, the White House. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: What is the most common type of twins? Identical twins, mirror image twins, fraternal twins, or monozygotic twins? Monozygotic is just another way of saying identical but the most common type of twins is fraternal. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  But this next story is three times the fun. It involves triplets. The chances of a woman being pregnant with three babies at once are one in   ten thousand. If they happen to be identical like the Wisconsin trio you`re about to meet, they can be tough even for parents to tell apart especially   when they`re infants. So besides different outfits, what can be done about this? (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  When you`re dealing with identical triplets, you can`t expect them to always be introducing   themselves. So, is it any wonder that this tip for triplets went viral on TikTok? (MUSIC) Forget pedicures. This is a cure for misidentification. The boy`s proud aunt posted the nail polish hack. Who gets what color of the triplets? How does that work? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  So, Henrik is blue. James is green, and Thomas is red. MOOS:  The 15-month-old Hasselquist triplets were more of a hassle to tell apart when they were younger. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  For a few months, you know, having that there is a backup just to make sure you didn`t feed the same kid twice. MOOS:  Posters on TikTok called the nail polish trick genius. It brought back memories. I did this with my twins and it wore off in the bath. I   spent days convinced they were mixed up. I`m still unsure and they are 21. Okay, even nail polish wouldn`t solve problems on the magnitude scene in "The Parent Trap". UNIDENTIFIED GIRL:  Then we`re like sisters. UNIDENTIFIED GIRL:  Hallie, we`re like twins. MOOS:  But the parents of these Wisconsin triplets aren`t taking any chances. In addition to weekly nail polish application, they tend to dress the boys in their color. These kids truly are color-coded. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Yes. MOOS:  And we`re not color-coded. They`re numbered. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Unexpected item in bagging area. MOOS:  These triplets have swept the Internet off its feet with their painted toes. Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Is it genius? It`s three-nius. An interesting way to polish up on parenting. Of course, when they`re older, it could land you in deep triple.   It might leave one blue, another red in the face, the third green with envy. But if you`re a fan of color-coded kids, baby, mom totally nailed it. Today`s shout-out goes out to Plainfield East High School. It is located in Plainfield, Illinois. The one and only way to get a shout-out is to   subscribe and leave a comment on our YouTube channel. I`m Carl Azuz. END     

Date: 2022-04-21
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Some changes are coming to that show open you just saw and our audience could be a part of it. Details are coming up in   just a few minutes. I`m Carl Azuz, delivering your Friday edition of CNN 10. A U.S. government rule requiring masks on public transportation is up in the air. Right now, Americans do not have to cover their faces on planes,   trains, buses and ride shares. That`s because of a federal judge`s ruling earlier this week that struck down the Biden administration`s mask mandate   for public transport. The court ruled that the Centers for Disease Control didn`t have the authority to require people to wear masks. On Tuesday, when he was asked about whether people should keep wearing masks on planes, President Joe Biden responded, quote, that`s up to them.   But Wednesday night, his administration said it would appeal the court`s decision. Officials say the CDC had determined that a mask mandate for   travelers was still necessary to protect the public health against COVID- 19. So, what happens next? Well, after the mandate was struck down, many U.S. airlines and public transit systems made masks optional. They still are.   Travelers in the U.S. won`t be required to wear them again unless an appeals court overturns the lower court`s decision. But no matter what it decides, this case could eventually get to the U.S. Supreme Court and it has ruled against some of the government`s COVID   requirements in the past. Last month, before any of this happened, several major airlines had asked the Biden administration to get rid of its mask mandate. United was one of   them and its CEO now says he thinks it`s unlikely that one will come back anytime soon. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: The equator runs directly through which of these countries? Kenya, Tanzania, Nigeria or Ethiopia? All of these countries are close to the equator, but only Kenya is actually crossed by it. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  The Great Pacific Garbage Patch is probably the best-known collection of litter in the ocean. It`s located between Hawaii and   California. It extends below the ocean surface and contains particles of everything from Styrofoam cups and bottle caps, to fishing nets and   microplastics, tiny pieces of trash. But this isn`t the only place where garbage collects in the sea. New research is being done on and around the coast of Kenya in the Western   Indian Ocean to get a sense of plastic pollution there and to devise new methods of dealing with it. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  The ancient city of Lamu, a popular part of the northern coast of Kenya, but the Indian Ocean brings   more than just tourists to the Lamu archipelago. Tons of marine litter is also washing up on these shores, mostly plastic. They pick up what they   can, but more keeps coming. This is -- it was manufactured in Indonesia. DIPESH PABARI, CO-FOUNDER & LEADER, THE FLIPFLOPI PROJECT:  Definitely I`ve never seen this being sold in Kenya. Fasclean never seen this. MADOWO:  Not a brand from here. PABARI:  That`s not a brand that`s sold here. MADOWO:  It`s manufactured in China. PABARI:  China. Nestle noodles, don`t recognize them over here. MADOWO:  Kenya banned single use plastic from protected areas, including beaches, but they`re still being manufactured locally and piling up all   over the coastline, a major headache for the local government. FAHIM YASIN TWAHA, GOVERNOR OF LAMU COUNTY:  We`re more receivers of the plastics than the givers of the plastic. This plastic is dumped elsewhere   and drifts to our shores. I guess we`re a magnetic place and we hope we can also attract good things, not just junk. MADOWO:  Piti (ph) who calls herself Mama Plastiki has been collecting that junk from her community for 35 years. But there`s nowhere to take most of   it. MAMA PLASTIKI, LAMU RESIDENT (through translator):  We don`t have a market for this plastic. So it has slowed us down a little. We had two people   working on this, but we ran out of money, so we`re stuck with it. MADOWO:  Even this better funded effort to clean up plastic from around Lamu is barely scratching the surface. The mountains of plastic waste just keeps growing here on the Kenyan coast and is threatening the oceans, the mangroves and the tourism industry here. Discarded plastic is sorted then crushed at this facility, breaking it down into smaller particles that can get molded into something more useful. This is incredibly strong. MORRIS KILONZO, PLASTIC RECYCLING EXPERT, THE FLIPFLOPI PROJECT:  This is a product of sorted, crushed and washed plastics. They give this. MADOWO:  And it could revolutionize construction. KILONZO:  This one going to utilize where (INAUDIBLE) is used. We can innovate and put whatever is lying at their backyards to something useful. These boats are leading a scientific expedition to study the impact of marine litter on the East African coast. Its organizers, the FlipFlopi   Project, say this is the first time such research is being carried out on this part of the West Indian Ocean. The scientists are measuring the presence of nano, micro and macro plastics in the ocean. What do you hope to learn from the samples you`re collecting? BAHATI MAYOMA, AQUATIC ECOLOGY & POLLUTION LECTURER:  For the first time, we`ll be able to understand how deep can you still find plastic pollution?   Most focuses has been on the surface. Now I want to understand because actually even most of the organisms, they live underneath. MADOWO:  By 2050, without intervention, there will be more plastic than fish in the ocean the U.N. has warned. Some of it may build the next   sailing boat like this one, made entirely of flip-flops. But most of it just suffocates marine life and coastal communities. PABARI:  Someone needs to pay for this. This is not something that these communities and us as local organizations can support and solve. Yes, we   are contributing to it, but it`s a global problem. It`s no different to climate change in that respect. MADOWO:  Residents here are doing every bit they can to tackle a global problem at the local level. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  For the first time in more than years, Netflix has lost subscribers. The U.S.-based streaming service and production company has been struggling   in 2022. It had been expected to add two and a half million subscribers in the first three months of this year. Instead, Netflix lost 200,000   subscribers and its stock as a result of that announcement this week took a nosedive on the market. It dropped 35 percent on Wednesday alone. Netflix still has more than 221 million subscribers around the world. It`s still profitable. The company made $1.6 billion in the first part of this   year, but that`s down from $1.7 billion in the same period last year. Why is this happening? (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) PAUL LA MONICA, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Consumers are fatigued I think with all the streaming options that are out there and an environment of rising   inflation. Everything is more expensive, cutting back on streaming services is a natural thing to potentially do if you`re worried about when you go to   the grocery store, order groceries online, and how much more expensive everything that you need to eat and live on a daily basis, which is not   Netflix exactly, you know, is rising and going higher. So I think that is potentially a problem. And then that crackdown on password sharing is also   likely to hurt Netflix because it shows that there aren`t really as many paying consumers as Netflix would like. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  I`ve always thought our show opened like Fridays is awesome. But it`s been the same for five years now. So we`re working on an update.   Parents and teachers, CNN 10 is looking for original artwork featuring the number to use in our new show opening. We`re particularly interested in creative number 10s that illustrate something cool about the place where you live. If you`d like to take part,   please send a photo of your artwork to CNN10@CNN.com, with your name location and best way to contact you through email or phone number. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  If you think 10 bucks is a little steep for three tacos, at least this Chipotle in Minnesota lets you eat them at the lake, so to speak. A   badly designed parking lot here has had a puddle for years. Some days, it`s bigger than others but it`s always there. So, locals started calling it   Lake Chipotle, and now, it`s a tourist attraction with its own website, fan clubs and a spot-on Google maps. Some critics say it`s inconvenient when it floods too many spaces, but it sure gives folks something to taco about. Of course, it makes for a soggy   bowl. It chips away at the places to park your carnitas. And some will say, okay, so we got to find somewhere else to burrito. But for those who said holy guacamole when they saw such a lake lot, at least the drink is free. I`m Carl Azuz. Today`s shout-out goes out to Atchison County Community High School. It is located in Effingham, Kansas. Thank you for subscribing and   leaving a comment at YouTube.com/CNN10. END     

Date: 2022-04-22
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Some changes are coming to that show open you just saw and our audience could be a part of it. Details are coming up in   just a few minutes. I`m Carl Azuz, delivering your Friday edition of CNN 10. A U.S. government rule requiring masks on public transportation is up in the air. Right now, Americans do not have to cover their faces on planes,   trains, buses and ride shares. That`s because of a federal judge`s ruling earlier this week that struck down the Biden administration`s mask mandate   for public transport. The court ruled that the Centers for Disease Control didn`t have the authority to require people to wear masks.  On Tuesday, when he was asked about whether people should keep wearing masks on planes, President Joe Biden responded, quote, that`s up to them.   But Wednesday night, his administration said it would appeal the court`s decision. Officials say the CDC had determined that a mask mandate for   travelers was still necessary to protect the public health against COVID- 19.  So what happens next? Well, after the mandate was struck down, many U.S. airlines and public transit systems made masks optional. They still are.   Travelers in the U.S. won`t be required to wear them again unless an appeals court overturns the lower court`s decision.  But no matter what it decides, this case could eventually get to the U.S. Supreme Court and it has ruled against some of the government`s COVID   requirements in the past.  Last month, before any of this happened, several major airlines had asked the Biden administration to get rid of its mask mandate. United was one of   them and its CEO now says he thinks it`s unlikely that one will come back anytime soon. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: The equator runs directly through which of these countries? Kenya, Tanzania, Nigeria or Ethiopia?  All of these countries are close to the equator, but only Kenya is actually crossed by it. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  The Great Pacific Garbage Patch is probably the best known collection of litter in the ocean. It`s located between Hawaii and   California. It extends below the ocean surface and contains particles of everything from Styrofoam cups and bottle caps, to fishing nets and   microplastics, tiny pieces of trash.  But this isn`t the only place where garbage collects in the sea. New research is being done on and around the coast of Kenya in the Western   Indian Ocean to get a sense of plastic pollution there and to devise new methods of dealing with it.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  The ancient city of Lamu, a popular part of the northern coast of Kenya, but the Indian Ocean brings   more than just tourists to the Lamu archipelago. Tons of marine litter is also washing up on these shores, mostly plastic. They pick up what they   can, but more keeps coming. This is -- it was manufactured in Indonesia.  DIPESH PABARI, CO-FOUNDER & LEADER, THE FLIPFLOPI PROJECT:  Definitely I`ve never seen this being sold in Kenya. Fasclean never seen this. MADOWO:  Not a brand from here. PABARI:  That`s not a brand that`s sold here. MADOWO:  It`s manufactured in China. PABARI:  China. Nestle noodles, don`t recognize them over here. MADOWO:  Kenya banned single use plastic from protected areas, including beaches, but they`re still being manufactured locally and piling up all   over the coastline, a major headache for the local government. FAHIM YASIN TWAHA, GOVERNOR OF LAMU COUNTY:  We`re more receivers of the plastics than the givers of the plastic. This plastic is dumped elsewhere   and drifts to our shores. I guess we`re a magnetic place and we hope we can also attract good things, not just junk. MADOWO:  Piti (ph) who calls herself Mama Plastiki has been collecting that junk from her community for 35 years. But there`s nowhere to take most of   it. MAMA PLASTIKI, LAMU RESIDENT (through translator):  We don`t have a market for this plastic. So it has slowed us down a little. We had two people   working on this, but we ran out of money, so we`re stuck with it.  MADOWO:  Even this better funded effort to clean up plastic from around Lamu is barely scratching the surface.  The mountains of plastic waste just keeps growing here on the Kenyan coast and is threatening the oceans, the mangroves and the tourism industry here. Discarded plastic is sorted then crushed at this facility, breaking it down into smaller particles that can get molded into something more useful. This is incredibly strong. MORRIS KILONZO, PLASTIC RECYCLING EXPERT, THE FLIPFLOPI PROJECT:  This is a product of sorted, crushed and washed plastics. They give this. MADOWO:  And it could revolutionize construction. KILONZO:  This one going to utilize where (INAUDIBLE) is used. We can innovate and put whatever is lying at their backyards to something useful. These boats are leading a scientific expedition to study the impact of marine litter on the East African coast. Its organizers, the FlipFlopi   Project, say this is the first time such research is being carried out on this part of the West Indian Ocean.  The scientists are measuring the presence of nano, micro and macro plastics in the ocean. What do you hope to learn from the samples you`re collecting?  BAHATI MAYOMA, AQUATIC ECOLOGY & POLLUTION LECTURER:  For the first time, we`ll be able to understand how deep can you still find plastic pollution?   Most focuses has been on the surface. Now I want to understand because actually even most of the organisms, they live underneath. MADOWO:  By 2050, without intervention, there will be more plastic than fish in the ocean the U.N. has warned. Some of it may build the next   sailing boat like this one, made entirely of flip-flops. But most of it just suffocates marine life and coastal communities. PABARI:  Someone needs to pay for this. This is not something that these communities and us as local organizations can support and solve. Yes, we   are contributing to it, but it`s a global problem. It`s no different to climate change in that respect. MADOWO:  Residents here are doing every bit they can to tackle a global problem at the local level.  (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  For the first time in more than years, Netflix has lost subscribers. The U.S.-based streaming service and production company has been struggling   in 2022. It had been expected to add two and a half million subscribers in the first three months of this year. Instead, Netflix lost 200,000   subscribers and its stock as a result of that announcement this week took a nosedive on the market. It dropped 35 percent on Wednesday alone. Netflix still has more than 221 million subscribers around the world. It`s still profitable. The company made $1.6 billion in the first part of this   year, but that`s down from $1.7 billion in the same period last year. Why is this happening? (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) PAUL LA MONICA, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Consumers are fatigued I think with all the streaming options that are out there and an environment of rising   inflation. Everything is more expensive, cutting back on streaming services is a natural thing to potentially do if you`re worried about when you go to   the grocery store, order groceries online, and how much more expensive everything that you need to eat and live on a daily basis, which is not   Netflix exactly, you know, is rising and going higher. So I think that is potentially a problem. And then that crackdown on password sharing is also   likely to hurt Netflix because it shows that there aren`t really as many paying consumers as Netflix would like. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  I`ve always thought our show opened like Fridays is awesome. But it`s been the same for five years now. So we`re working on an update.   Parents and teachers, CNN 10 is looking for original artwork featuring the number to use in our new show opening. We`re particularly interested in creative number 10s that illustrate something cool about the place where you live. If you`d like to take part,   please send a photo of your artwork to CNN10@CNN.com, with your name location and best way to contact you through email or phone number. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  If you think 10 bucks is a little steep for three tacos, at least this Chipotle in Minnesota lets you eat them at the lake, so to speak. A   badly designed parking lot here has had a puddle for years. Some days, it`s bigger than others but it`s always there. So locals started calling it Lake   Chipotle, and now, it`s a tourist attraction with its own website, fan clubs and a spot on Google maps.  Some critics say it`s inconvenient when it floods too many spaces, but it sure gives folks something to taco about. Of course, it makes for a soggy   bowl. It chips away at the places to park your carnitas. And some will say, okay, so we got to find somewhere else to burrito. But for those who said holy guacamole when they saw such a lake lot, at least the drink is free. I`m Carl Azuz. Today`s shout-out goes out to Atchison County Community High School. It is located in Effingham, Kansas. Thank you for subscribing and   leaving a comment at YouTube.com/CNN10. END     

Date: 2022-04-25
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. I`m Carl Azuz, kicking off a new week of objective events coverage on CNN 10. One question people sometimes ask me is, Carl, what are you covering next week? I`m like, depends on what happens. But there is something coming up   in about six and a half months that`s been getting a lot of attention in America, the November 8th midterm elections.  Midterm means it`s in the middle of a president`s term. Joe Biden is not up for re-election until. But what happens later this year could significantly   change the government`s legislative branch. Currently, the Senate and the House of Representatives are controlled by the president`s fellow   Democrats. Their leads in both chambers are slim.  In the House where all voting seats are up for election this year, Democrats hold 221 seats, Republicans hold 209, and there are five vacant   seats to be determined, rounding out the House`s 435 voting members. In the Senate, 34 seats are up for election this year. Of the 100 total seats, 50 are currently held by Republicans, 50 are currently held by   Democrats. When you count the two independents who vote with them, the Democrats are said to be in control because if there`s ever a 50-50 tie,   the vice president, a Democrat, would decide the Senate vote. This November, many political analysts expect Republicans to make gains in Congress, possibly taking control of one or both chambers. The president`s   nationwide approval ratings are low, and most modern presidents have seen their parties lose seats in the midterms.  Republicans have pressured President Biden on issues like immigration. They want him to increase border security to cut down on illegal immigration.   They`ve also pushed for less government spending and more fossil fuel production with the goal of bringing down inflation. Jeff Zeleny reports on what some Democrats are saying. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MARIAMA DAVIS, STORE MANAGER, THE BEEHIVE BOTIQUE:  When you go to the grocery store, it feels like you`re shopping in Hawaii.  JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  But Mariama Davis lives in Georgia and feels the sting of inflation for   herself, and customers at her boutique, The Beehive.  DAVIS:  The idea the eggs are $3 now is -- that`s a lot. People have their families to feed. So if they have an option between buying a gift or   putting food on the table, I`m going to expect folks to put food on the table.  ZELENY:  Six months before voters decide of Democrats maintain control of Congress, a sour mood is hanging over the economy.  As inflation looms as a major issue in a national election for the first time in 1980, some blame President Biden.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Ever since Mr. Biden took office, everything`s been going up.  ZELENY:  Others do not.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It`s a number of things. I wouldn`t just blame President Biden solely.  ZELENY:  Yet, it`s a problem he owns, and one of the biggest challenges facing the White House.  At Daddy D`z barbecue, owner Christianah Coker-Jackson sees inflation everywhere.  CHRISTIANAH COKER-JACKSON, OWNER, DADDY D`Z BARBECUE:  I love that. ZELENY:  From paper goods to the cost of meat, to how often people are dining out.  COKER-JACKSON:  We are not seeing the same amount of traffic that we normally do. And I think that`s the fear of just spending with the top of   inflation, inflation, inflation. Customers are scared.  ZELENY:  And as a Democrat, she is scared of the consequences come November.  COKER-JACKSON:  If we can`t get out and vote for the midterms, then all the work we did in 2020 is not really going to matter, because we`re going to   have a handicapped president.  ZELENY:  Atlanta and the surrounding suburbs have recorded the second highest inflation jump among the nation`s largest metropolitan areas with   prices climbing 10.6 percent, second only to Phoenix at 10.9 percent, and higher than the national increase of 8.5 percent.  Georgia is also a hot political battleground, which Biden narrowly won in 2020. This year, it will help determine whether Democrats hold the Senate   by reelecting Raphael Warnock -- his early campaign ads trying to redirect any economic blame.  SEN. RAPHAEL WARNOCK (D-GA):  What if I told you shipping container companies have been making record profits while prices have been   skyrocketing on you? That`s why I`m pushing to hold them accountable.  ZELENY:  That message is competing with loud Republican criticism.  POLITICAL AD:  Joe Biden`s ruining our country.  ZELEN:  Jen Jordan, a state senator who turned a suburban district from red to blue, and is now running for attorney general, knows the Democrats face   headwinds. But she said Republicans have not offered a positive alternative.  JEN JORDAN (D), GEORGIA STATE SENATOR:  We`re still in the middle of a pandemic, right? So, what people do is they respond to how they are   feeling. How are their lives, right? They are also going to tag the president for that.  But look, we have got a million miles to go before November.  ZELENY:  Back at The Beehive where we first met Davis a year ago, she then urged people to give Biden time.  DAVIS:  Just be patient. Like, it`s coming. Everything doesn`t happen overnight. Folks know that.  ZELENY:  Now, she adds this caveat.  DAVIS:  Patient but frustrated. Just frustrated. Just would like to get the relief that we need so we can start operating how used to.  ZELENY:  Jeff Zeleny, CNN, Atlanta.  (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: The thymus, the spleen, and bone marrow are all important parts of what? Digestive system, immune system, nervous system, or endocrine system? Along with white blood cells and antibodies, these are parts of your immune system. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Doctors say the vast majority of people in the United States now have some degree of immunity to COVID-10. They say that`s from a combo of   factors that include being vaccinated against the disease and/or having caught COVID and developed natural immunity as people recovered from it.  When it comes to natural immunity, what our bodies learn from fighting off a disease, the estimates of how long we`re protected from getting COVID   again are anywhere from three months to five years. Why is that range so wide? (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  In this lab at Emory University, scientists like Mehul Suthar are working to answer   one of the most common questions of the pandemic, how much protection does a previous COVID infection provide?  MEHUL SUTHAR, VIRAL IMMUNOLOGIST, EMORY UNIVERSITY:  With infections, you`ll have lots of individuals that have very low and individuals that   have very high antibody responses. GUPTA:  Take a look at this graph of people who have immunity from a prior infection. See how varied the blue dots and lines are? They represent the   antibody response. It`s all over the place. It is proof, Suthar says, that not all infections are the same. But how do you use this data to make decisions in the real world, especially now that   states have loosened measures like mask and vaccine mandates? If I were to get my antibodies checked, could I then get some sort of measure of just how protected I am? SUTHAR:  There aren`t good correlates of protection, something that says that this is the measurement that one needs to know how well they are   protected. And now with these variants, we`re seeing how these antibodies responses sort of take a hit. GUPTA:  Let`s say you`re in a situation where someone essentially doesn`t have antibodies anymore. You were to measure their antibodies that you   don`t see them. Does that mean they no longer have protection? SUTHAR:  Not necessarily. So there`s several aspects to one`s immune system that can drive protection. GUPTA:  Like B cells, which can make more antibodies if the virus comes back, and T-cells which help activate the immune system and get rid of   infected cells.  Antibodies in your blood naturally wane over time. Think of it like security lights at your home. When there`s an intruder nearby, they should   turn on. But when there`s no more threat, you want them to turn back off. Why do we focus so much on antibodies? SUTHAR:  One aspect is that antibodies are probably one of the easiest to measure in the laboratory. GUPTA:  Dr. Dorry Segev is a transplant surgeon who says antibody tests should be used in some cases to understand how protected people are. In   February, he published research on hundreds of unvaccinated Americans who had COVID. DR. DORRY SEGEV, TRANSPLANT SURGEON:  Almost every single one of them had detectable antibodies. GUPTA:  It`s something Segev thinks we do need to take into consideration. SEGEV:  COVID is a high risk, high consequence way of getting immunity. But if you had COVID and you went through that and you have immunity, that is   something we need to respect and we need to incorporate in the ways we draw the sort of the new social contract of COVID. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Parents and teachers, CNN 10 is looking for original artwork featuring the number to use in our new show opening. We`d love to see   creativity, tens that illustrate something cool about where you live.  Please send a photo of your artwork to CNN10@CNN.com, along with your name location and the best way to reach you through email or phone number. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  There aren`t too many places in America where you`d see someone like this strolling through the neighborhood. But Venice Florida is definitely   one of them.  Police have been called recently to keep tabs on a couple of alligators. One of them more than feet long that have been wandering around as if   they`re looking for a block party. It`s possible they were looking for a mate, though they`ll probably have better luck in the water. I wonder if that affects home values. I mean, the neighbors are cold- blooded, but they love to jaw. There are some interesting yard art, reptile floors, built-in scales, not a lot of pests or dogs or cats hanging around.   But if you`re concerned about fast drivers, they have some natural speed bumps. We`ll see you later. I`m Carl Azuz. Durango High School in Las Vegas, Nevada, gets today`s shout-out for subscribing and commenting on our YouTube channel. That`s the only way to   get a mention on our show. END     

Date: 2022-04-26
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, everyone. I`m Carl Azuz. Happy to see you this Tuesday. We`re starting today`s show in Europe. For the first time in 20 years, a French president has won re-election. That president is Emmanuel Macron. On   Sunday, he faced off against the same candidate, Marine Le Pen, who`d run against him in the 2017 election. President Macron`s victory wasn`t by as many votes this time as it was five years ago. On Sunday, Le Pen won 41-1/2 percent of the vote. That`s the   most ever for a candidate from France`s National Rally Party. But President Macron, from the Onwards Republic Party, won 58-1/2 percent of the vote. In his victory speech, he promised he`d be a president for each and every one of the French. But after the election, he and Le Pen still disagreed on   whether Macron could smooth out political divisions in France. The president said he must. Le Pen said he wouldn`t. Those divisions were clear among the protesters who opposed President Macron on the left side of your screen and the supporters who celebrated   his victory on the right. Many voters didn`t turn out for either candidate. The French government says the abstention rate, the percentage of people   who didn`t vote at all, was 28 percent. That`s its highest level in more than 50 years. And regardless of the election`s outcome, the challenges   facing France remain high. The country has seen several political storms since the 2017 election, and amid rising energy prices that only got worse after Russia invaded Ukraine,   France`s newly re-elected leader has a lot to deal with in the months ahead. President Macron says he`ll address all of France`s current problems   and that his second term will not be a continuation of his first. One thing that could affect his governing ability are France`s upcoming parliamentary elections. Those are happening in June and Le Pen says her   party is in an excellent position to make gains in them. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORTER:  Young, bold, ambitious. EMMANUEL MACRON, FRENCH PRESIDENT (through translator):  We are at the dawn of an extraordinary renaissance. When Emmanuel Macron became the president of France in 2017, he promised a fresh direction for the country, pro-business and staunchly pro-European.   Within months, he was mired in challenges that would dog his presidency. The first was one of his own making. Sparked by a tax on diesel that particularly affected poorer rural drivers, tens of thousands of French protesters took to the streets. JEROME RODRIGUES, LEADING "YELLOW VESTS PROTEST (through translator):  French people don`t have the means to buy an electric vehicle, and if you   want it, it`s the straw that broke the camel`s back. REPORTER:  The Yellow Vest movement became one of the most significant French protests in decades, although Macron eventually rode back on the   diesel tax. MACRON:  I will not give anything to those who want destruction and disorder because the republic is both public order and the free expression   of opinions. REPORTER:  As protests faded, the unexpected struck, COVID-19. We`re at war, declared Macron, shutting down France in one of the strictest lockdowns in Europe. DJALLALI ANNANE, HEAD OF INTENSIVE CARE UNIT:  So, first wave people were really angry because of neglected and the need for full lockdown and the   number of fatal cases. REPORTER:  Despite a slow rollout for European vaccines, Macron doubled down on vaccinations to get France out of lockdowns, mandating health   passes to push people to get jabbed. Protests from a vocal minority erupted in response, even as demand for vaccines skyrocketed almost overnight. But it`s been internationally where   Macron has had some of his most important moments, all marked by his distinctive style. NATALIE LOISEAU, FORMER MINISTER OF EUROPEAN AFFAIRS:  He speaks his mind. He speaks loud, but you cannot use the same old diplomatic words and he`s   done it quite often. It`s blunt. It`s uh disruptive but then people listen. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these Greek scientists would have had the earliest laboratory? Pythagoras, Archimedes, Plato or Aristotle. Pythagoras was born the longest time ago in 570 B.C. and might have had the first laboratory ever recorded. Up next, a new way to conduct medical research using virtual reality technology. That in itself is a new concept. The practice of research in   laboratories directly interacting with whatever matter you`re studying goes back millennia, but with new tools come new ideas and a company named   Nanome which is featured in our next report isn`t the only one that offers VR software for scientific research. There are some potential drawbacks to this. For one thing, virtual reality has long been criticized for causing motion sickness in some users. Some of   the technology is still experimental. It`s not as refined as tried and true traditional research. It`s not known yet if the inside it offers is worth   the investment. You`ve got to buy the headsets, the computers, the software and Nanome itself might not be as user friendly in some ways as its   competitors. But it is one way in which scientists and medical companies can get an immersive view of the molecules they`re studying. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RACHEL CRANE, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Oh, okay. Well, let`s give me some hair. (voice-over):  This might look like a game, but I`m exploring a virtual reality platform that helps scientists design real medicines by putting   them inside the molecules they study. I mean, this is crazy. I`m like, in the molecule looking up at it. Joining me is Steve McCloskey. The 30-year-old co-founded San Diego-based startup Nanome in 2016 to develop the technology. But you started off as an academic nano engineer. So, what inspired you to get into the technology space and actually create this platform? STEVE MCCLOSKEY, CO-FOUNDER AND CEO, NANOME:  Yeah, I`ve always been into gaming, grew up big gamer. I remembered how different it was to go into VR   and be in the environment compared to just playing a 2D game. When I was going through nano engineering, I was like, why don`t we have a better immersive graphics way to do this? CRANE:  Turns out, a lot of scientists were asking the same. Since the platform launched in 2018, hundreds of organizations have adopted Nanome`s   VR tools for their research, McCloskey says, at a cost of $5,000 plus per year. MCCLOSKEY:  Being able to go into VR, you actually immediately gain new insights. So, this could send you on a completely new path of molecular   development that would have otherwise never been discovered. CRANE:  That`s exactly what`s needed to fight one growing health crisis, antibiotic resistance. It`s what happens when bacteria adapt and no longer   respond to today`s antibiotics, making common infections difficult to treat and even fatal. LifeArc, a medical research charity based in the UK, is using Nanome`s VR to search for molecules that can fight some of these bugs. DAVID POWELL, CHIEF SCIENTIFIC OFFICER, LIFEARC:  These bacteria are inherently difficult to develop new drugs for because they`ve got very high   natural defenses. CRANE:  Tackling the problem in three dimensions helps speed up discovery, LifeArc says. But there are still financial hurdles to overcome. POWELL:  The commercial returns for new antibiotics are really poor. CRANE:  That`s because compared to other medications, antibiotics are cheap to buy but expensive to develop. What kind of time savings does Nanome allow for and how does that then translate to cost savings? MCCLOSKEY:  Getting a drug to market six months quicker might be worth tens or even hundreds of millions of dollars of value, because you`re able to   start selling it earlier. This is going to be patient lives that you`re saving, improvements in their lives. CRANE:  Even with a quicker path to discovery, only around one in 10 new antibiotics make it past clinical trial, and no antibiotic designed with   Nanome`s platform is at that stage yet. But McCloskey says the VR gives more scientists a chance to beat the odds. MCCLOSKEY:  It`s actually a free version. We try to make it as accessible as possible, really democratizing access to scientific tools like this and   trying to see a billion scientists in the world. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Teachers, parents, homeschoolers, instructors if you want to know what`s in each day show, if you want a direct link to where you can submit   your artwork for our new show open, if you want your inbox to be just a little more awesome, please sign up for our free daily newsletter at   CNN.com. Scroll down to where it says sign up for daily emails. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Well, here`s a world record attempt you don`t hear about every day this is Whitby Abbey in the United Kingdom. Its ruins date back as early as   the 600s. But more recently, in 1890, the author Bram Stoker visited the site and he wrote it into his famous novel "Dracula". That book came out   125 years ago. So, to commemorate that, there`s going to be live music, food and drinks and free entry to people styled like Dracula. The goal: to break the record for the most people dressed as vampires in one place. That record is 1,039. But who`s counting? I was just going to end the show there, but then I thought I could vamp a bit. This could be an interesting caper to tell the   tooth. Some people are really stoked about it. They`re certainly going to bat an eye. And so, I decided to sink my teeth into a few more puns because I thought of them in the neck of time. I`m Carl del Azuz. We are going to shout-out Seaford High School today. It is in Seaford, Delaware. Thank you for your request at Youtube.com/CNN10. END     

Date: 2022-04-27
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Another billionaire is buying another media company. The reasons why and the concerns surrounding the deal are all part   of today`s down the middle coverage. I`m Carl Azuz. Thankful to have you watching. We`ll start with the company being bought. Twitter is a social media giant. Hundreds of millions around the world regularly use it sharing their   thoughts and tweets that are limited to 280 characters or less. The company has grown tremendously since it was founded in but it`s been criticized for   how it governs its users and the information they share. Many political conservatives for example have said Twitter has a double standard that it`s more likely to censor the tweets or suspend the accounts   of conservatives than it is of political liberals. Twitter has denied doing this saying its policies are based around users` behavior not where they   stand politically, but there have been several instances of Twitter appearing to suppress or put warning labels on conservative publications. That brings us to a question asked recently by billionaire businessman Elon Musk. The founder of SpaceX has said in the past he`s not a conservative,   that he`s an independent whose views are politically moderate. But last month, Musk accused Twitter of failing to adhere to the principles of free   speech and he asked what should be done about that given that the platform functioned as what he called a public town square. Well, he has decided to buy it. The agreement which is worth more than $40 billion is one of the biggest deals ever to put a public company into   private ownership. Musk says he wants to make twitter better than ever by adding new features, making its algorithm clearer to the public and getting   rid of spam bots on the platform. Congressional Republicans called the deal a victory for free speech and said they hoped it would keep technology companies from, quote, censoring   users that have a different viewpoint. Musk is not the first billionaire to buy a major media company. In 2013, Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, bought "The Washington Post" newspaper.   In 2018, Marc Benioff, the founder of Salesforce, bought "Time Magazine". But there are critics of Musk`s purchase of Twitter. Brian Todd reports on what they`re saying. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  The world`s richest man, buying up one of the world`s most powerful social media companies,   generating huge buzz tonight. Twitter has agreed to sell itself to Elon Musk, the flamboyant, controversial CEO of Tesla and SpaceX, for about $44 billion. A deal that   could bring enormous change to the popular platform. BRIAN FUNG, CNN TECHNOLOGY REPORTER:  What we`re talking about here is the confluence, really, of a number of conversations we`re having nationally   and internationally about, you know, the power of billionaires. For example, the influence of tech platforms on democracies. ELON MUSK, TESLA CEO:  We`re going to have an option -- TODD:  With this purchase, Twitter will now led by one of the quirkiest business titans America has ever known. Musk himself has used Twitter and   his more than 80 million followers to build his brand but also to troll others. MARA SCHIAVOCAMPO, HOST, "RUN TELL THIS" PODCAST:  You know, it`s hard to know when exactly to take him seriously because he is so eccentric. So when   this idea came up, you know, we know that this will cost him billions of dollars. TODD:  Even with his quirks, why should the average consumer care that Elon Musk will lead Twitter? FUNG:  Many of its users are government officials or government accounts, or politicians or business leaders. You know, that could have really   important effects on how the rest of us perceive many of these topics that have so many influential people engaging on. TODD:  One concern critics have, Musk`s goal of bolstering free speech on Twitter and his complaints about Twitter censoring too much content and its   permanent bans of some users. JESSICA GONZALEZ, CO-CEO OF FREE PRESS:  I don`t think we actually want any anything-goes Twitter, because we`ve seen that conspiracy theorists are   willing to use the platform to spread lies and disinformation to spread hate and harassment campaigns. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Between January and December of 2021, average gasoline prices in the United States rose about a dollar per gallon or more than 45 percent over   the course of the year. In 2021, average grocery prices rose 3.5 percent. And this year, prices for gas and food have climbed even higher, in part   because of widespread complications from the war in Ukraine. The Biden administration says it`s not expecting a food shortage in the U.S. during the months ahead, but that may not hold true for the rest of   the world. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  Russia`s invasion of Ukraine shocked the oil market, sending crude skyrocketing and prices at   the pump to record highs. But that could look like a blip compared to food prices. Consider this: Russia supplies 8 percent of global oil exports, but   Ukraine and Russia together supply about 29 percent of all wheat exports. The prospects of sharply curtailed supplies from the world`s breadbasket is sending gyrations through the market. Wheat futures surged in early March   and have been volatile ever since. In the U.S., expect higher prices for bread and cereal which were rising even before Russia launched its war in   Ukraine in late February. But most U.S. consumer brands don`t rely on imported wheat, so supply disruptions are unlikely. But that`s not the case for the rest of the   world. Russia and Ukraine are the top wheat suppliers for Egypt, Turkey, Nigeria, Indonesia, Bangladesh and Pakistan. And it`s not just wheat, Ukraine is also a major exporter of corn oil and the world`s largest supplier of sunflower oil. Those prices have surged   too, as war prevents supply from leaving the country. Fears are growing that soaring prices in the Middle East and Africa could fuel social unrest. In the months before world food prices hit a record   high, more than a decade later, prices are again in record territory, and Russia`s invasion of Ukraine is only making the situation worse. Cracks are   already showing with recent protests in Sri Lanka, Pakistan and Peru over rising food and fuel prices. A food crisis driven by shortages, skyrocketing prices and hunger could bring even more people to the streets. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: What is the most commonly used password online? 123456, Qwerty, password or default? Cyber security experts say the world`s most common password is the first, 123456. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Passwords and you. Many of us get annoyed at having to type upper and lowercase letters and numbers and special characters to get into online   accounts. But cyber security is a growing problem and all of the potential solutions have drawbacks. The Verizon wireless company says weak passwords or ones that have been figured out or stolen are responsible for more than 80 percent of data   breaches, when someone who isn`t authorized gets into an account. Some businesses require two-factor authentication like when you`re texted a code   you have to enter in addition to your password, but hackers have reportedly found a way around those as well. CNBC reports that Apple, Google and Microsoft are working on ways to address password insecurity. Instead of keyboard characters, your face or   your fingerprint would be used to unlock your online accounts. Might sound more secure since only you have your exact fingerprint, but an image of   that or your face can still be stolen. So, constantly having to change and update passwords may still be easier. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Amazon has been given the green light to build its HQ2, its second headquarters in northern Virginia. The estimated cost is $2.5 billion, and   it`s supposed to have room for 25,000 workers. But it`s the helix design of it which is unique that kind of reminded me of soft serve ice cream. Other   interpretations weren`t all flattering. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  When it comes to its new second headquarters to be built across the Potomac from Washington, D.C.,   Amazon`s designers are thinking outside the box. The Arlington County, Virginia Board gave Amazon a lot of love. KATIE CRISTOL, CHAIR, ARLINGOTN COUNTRY BOARD:  All those in favor please say aye. Aye! (APPLAUSE) MOOS:  Unanimously approving plans including the helix building with a walkable ramp surrounded by greenery. Sort of a mountain hike that the   public could access two days a month. Please tell me there`s a slide to get down from the top after you hike it. Nope, sorry. The height will be about 350 feet. PETER SCHULZ, ARLINGTON COUNTY PLANNER:  It does not have stories in the traditional sense. MOOS:  Twitter invented stories, comparing the helix to everything from a rotini to a spaceship in disguise, to the Tower of Babel. Some noted   similarities to an ancient mosque built back in the 9th century in present- day Iraq. The helix sure is eye-catching -- Amazon in its prime. And while this commenter used a bedazzled emoji to say how cool is this building, someone else weaponized another popular emoji. Looks pretty shiny   to us. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Guess if you`re one of the world`s wealthiest companies, you`re going to put your own spin on things, try to turn heads, ramp up, spiral   up, spring forward, hang around, stay ahead of the curb, designed with a twist. Sure, critics might be turned Amaz-off, but it will raise eye lines   to the skyline. Kingwood Park High School is in Kingwood, Texas. It is great to have you watching. You get today`s shout-out. I`m Carl Azuz for CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-04-28
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  A dip into drought describes the dynamic duo of developments we detail first today. I`m Carl Azuz. It`s always good to see you. By dip, we mean a decline or contraction in the U.S. economy. The nation`s gross domestic product, a measure of all the goods and services America   produced, in the first quarter of this year decreased at a pace of 1.4 percent. Economists had predicted the economy would grow at a pace of 1.1   percent. So, this drop was unexpected. So, America`s economy produced significantly less between January and March than it did between October and December when it grew at a pace of 6.9   percent. Why does that matter? For one thing, the decrease was the economy`s worst performance since the COVID pandemic hit in for we`ve now seen one quarter, a three-month period   of shrinking economic growth. If there are two of those in a row, it meets a commonly used definition of a recession to be clear the American economy   is not officially in a recession at this point and it might not see one in the months ahead but this has raised concerns about it. Why did the economy shrink? There are a number of explanations. Some private investments decreased. America`s exports fell, while its imports   rose. That can hurt a country`s gross domestic product. Spending across different levels of government decreased and inflation, the historic rise   in prices the U.S. has seen since last year, continues to cause problems. But while some analysts call this a warning sign for the economy, there is a silver lining. Consumer spending increased. People kept buying stuff.   That`s a major driver of economic growth. And the unemployment rate, the percentage of American workers who don`t have a job, that`s been steadily   decreasing since the country reopened after the COVID lockdowns. It`s another good sign for the economy because in a recession, unemployment   typically goes up. One thing that`s not going up are water levels at Lake Mead. This is America`s largest man-made reservoir. It`s located in Nevada and Arizona   and it`s a source of water for millions of people. Lake Mead is at its lowest level ever, and about 250 miles southwest of there, millions of   southern Californians have been told to stop watering their lawns and gardens more than one day per week. Officials are afraid there won`t be enough water to meet the demands of many residents and businesses in the region. All of this is part of a   historic drought in the American West. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PEDRAM JAVAHERI, CNN INTERNATIONAL METEOROLOGIST:  So often in recent days, we`ve talked about the fire weather concerns around the southwestern U.S.,   but across the state of California, the big concern for years now has been the drought situation where upwards of 90 percent of the state was dealing   with extreme drought. This was just last October. We had an incredible run of wet weather in November and December, historic amounts of rainfall that actually brought our extreme drought situation in   the state down to just one percent and then what followed was a very dry January, February, and March, essentially going right back to our historic   drought situation which brought the extreme drought numbers from that 1 percent up to 40 percent in the entirety of the state dealing with at least   some level of drought, so really concerning set up, and mind you, this was in the heart of the wet season that is now beginning to taper off. In fact, look at the reservoirs across the state, a lot of these areas running 10, 20 percent below where they should be for this time of year.   Say, Lake Oroville, 53 percent current capacity, that should be closer to 70 percent, work your way towards Pine Flat, sitting about 48 percent of   current capacity. That number should be closer to 81 percent. So, very dry situation and there has been wet weather but unfortunately a lot of it locked in across the Pacific Northwest. With that said, an   incredibly dry start to the year look at these areas, very densely populated regions, San Jose, San Francisco on into Santa Rosa, Monterey,   only eight, nine, up to 16-inch rainfall deficits again in the wet season. So, a concerning start here as we head on into the dry season. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these objects represents the largest number? Asteroid Belt asteroids, species of fish, trees on earth, or Milky Way stars? Scientists estimate there are hundreds of billions of stars in the Milky Way but trillions of trees on earth. I couldn`t believe that either but it seems those trees and other natural wonders can have a healing effect on people. According to the U.S. Centers   for Disease Control, 40 percent of American adults have at least two chronic diseases. They might include high blood pressure, mood disorders,   heart problems, diabetes. According to the American Psychological Association, lower stress, better moods, better brain activity and possibly even overall happiness can all be   linked to spending time in the great outdoors. That`s why there are dozens of programs that prescribe nature as a potential form of healing. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DR. MELISSA LEM, DIRECTOR, PARK PRESCRIPTIONS (PARX):  Nature is everywhere. We can find it in the most unexpected places and nature is   health. Park prescription or PaRx is Canada`s national nature prescription program like the physician or nurse does is they sit down with the patient and they   figure out what kind of nearby natures is in their community and then they work with them together to come up with a plan where they can incorporate   nature time into their everyday lifestyle. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Some cherry tomatoes, so this is the prescription. And it just gives my name and it says my outdoor activity plan. LEM:  In 2022, we announced a new collaboration with Parks Canada where licensed health professionals can now prescribe national discovery passes   that give you entry to national parks. There are only two national nature prescription programs in the world and the first one was actually founded right in the U.S. Cost can be a barrier   where there are day use fees. So, we`re hoping that by prescribing these Parks Canada`s discovery passes, that will reduce that barrier to nature   access in a significant way. Well, there are two major theories as to why nature is so good for our brains and the first one is called attention restoration theory. When we   spend time in busy urban environments all the hard edges and traffic and lights and people everywhere really make us have to constantly focus our   attention to kind of navigate around those obstacles. Whereas when you spend time in nature, it`s really this source of soft fascination. So, what   that does is it restores your powers of attention and it reduces that fatigue and irritability. The second major theory is called stress reduction theory. So basically, when we spend time in nature after stressful events, it helps us be more   resilient and recover faster. When I recommended nature for the first time to a patient of mine, I thought he`s going to look at me funny and he`s going to laugh at me. But   he actually just nodded his head and said, you`re absolutely right, when I spend more time in nature, I feel better. And so, I think healthcare providers sort of have to get over our own mental biases against new sort of lifestyle interventions and prescribe   something evidence-based like nature time more often. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Fifty days from seed to vegetable. I think the prescription helps in that it says this is a good thing to do. This is   worth the effort to do. You need to get out of doors and just be surrounded by the greenery and by nature. LEM:  I want people to know that nature should be a non-negotiable. The thing about heading outside is that you tend to start to naturally be more   active. You`ll feel calmer. You`ll feel less depressed, less anxious. I think it`s just a great way to deal with the stresses of modern life. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Old McDonald`s in the wall, E-I-E-I -- what? While renovating a home built in 1959, a man in Illinois found a bag from McDonald`s possibly dating back to 1959 that had been hidden in his   bathroom. It featured the original restaurant logo which predates Ronald McDonald, along with burger wrappers and some shall we say stale leftover   fries. Don`t know if he tried one. He said they didn`t have any smell. We`d guess they were petrifried. There`s something filet-o-fishy about why the meat was missing. It`s a real McGriddle, maybe the work of a   hamburglar. He is an arch`s enemy. And if the thought of that makes you grimace, it is the mayor of McCheesy stories that has enough flavorful   nuggets to make for a happy meal. Fridays are awesome. Horseshoe Bend High school is in New Sight, Alabama. Shout-out to you. Thank you for watching. I`m Carl Azuz. Wishing all of you an amazing weekend. END     

Date: 2022-04-29
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  A dip into drought describes the dynamic duo of developments we detail first today.  I`m Carl Azuz. It`s always good to see you. By dip, we mean a decline or contraction in the U.S. economy. The nation`s gross domestic product, a measure of all the goods and services America   produced, in the first quarter of this year decreased at a pace of 1.4 percent. Economists had predicted the economy would grow at a pace of 1.1   percent. So this drop was unexpected. So, America`s economy produced significantly less between January and March than it did between October and December when it grew at a pace of 6.9   percent. Why does that matter?  For one thing, the decrease was the economy`s worst performance since the COVID pandemic hit in for we`ve now seen one quarter, a three-month period   of shrinking economic growth. If there are two of those in a row, it meets a commonly used definition of a recession to be clear the American economy   is not officially in a recession at this point and it might not see one in the months ahead but this has raised concerns about it. Why did the economy shrink? There are a number of explanations. Some private investments decreased. America`s exports fell, while its imports   rose. That can hurt a country`s gross domestic product. Spending across different levels of government decreased and inflation, the historic rise   in prices the U.S. has seen since last year, continues to cause problems. But while some analysts call this a warning sign for the economy, there is a silver lining. Consumer spending increased. People kept buying stuff.   That`s a major driver of economic growth. And the unemployment rate, the percentage of American workers who don`t have a job, that`s been steadily   decreasing since the country reopened after the COVID lockdowns. It`s another good sign for the economy because in a recession, unemployment   typically goes up. One thing that`s not going up are water levels at Lake Mead. This is America`s largest man-made reservoir. It`s located in Nevada and Arizona   and it`s a source of water for millions of people. Lake Mead is at its lowest level ever, and about 250 miles southwest of there, millions of   southern Californians have been told to stop watering their lawns and gardens more than one day per week.  Officials are afraid there won`t be enough water to meet the demands of many residents and businesses in the region. All of this is part of a   historic drought in the American West. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PEDRAM JAVAHERI, CNN INTERNATIONAL METEOROLOGIST:  So often in recent days, we`ve talked about the fire weather concerns around the southwestern U.S.,   but across the state of California, the big concern for years now has been the drought situation where upwards of 90 percent of the state was dealing   with extreme drought. This was just last October.  We had an incredible run of wet weather in November and December, historic amounts of rainfall that actually brought our extreme drought situation in   the state down to just one percent and then what followed was a very dry January, February, and March, essentially going right back to our historic   drought situation which brought the extreme drought numbers from that 1 percent up to 40 percent in the entirety of the state dealing with at least   some level of drought, so really concerning set up, and mind you, this was in the heart of the wet season that is now beginning to taper off.  In fact look at the reservoirs across the state, a lot of these areas running 10, 20 percent below where they should be for this time of year.   Say, Lake Oroville, 53 percent current capacity, that should be closer to 70 percent, work your way towards Pine Flat, sitting about 48 percent of   current capacity. That number should be closer to 81 percent. So, very dry situation and there has been wet weather but unfortunately a lot of it locked in across the Pacific Northwest. With that said, an   incredibly dry start to the year look at these areas, very densely populated regions, San Jose, San Francisco on into Santa Rosa, Monterey,   only eight, nine, up to 16-inch rainfall deficits again in the wet season. So, a concerning start here as we head on into the dry season. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these objects represents the largest number? Asteroid Belt asteroids, species of fish, trees on earth, or Milky Way stars? Scientists estimate there are hundreds of billions of stars in the Milky Way but trillions of trees on earth. I couldn`t believe that either but it seems those trees and other natural wonders can have a healing effect on people. According to the U.S. Centers   for Disease Control, 40 percent of American adults have at least two chronic diseases. They might include high blood pressure, mood disorders,   heart problems, diabetes.  According to the American Psychological Association, lower stress, better moods, better brain activity and possibly even overall happiness can all be   linked to spending time in the great outdoors. That`s why there are dozens of programs that prescribe nature as a potential form of healing. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DR. MELISSA LEM, DIRECTOR, PARK PRESCRIPTIONS (PARX):  Nature is everywhere. We can find it in the most unexpected places and nature is   health. Park prescription or PaRx is Canada`s national nature prescription program like the physician or nurse does is they sit down with the patient and they   figure out what kind of nearby natures is in their community and then they work with them together to come up with a plan where they can incorporate   nature time into their everyday lifestyle. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Some cherry tomatoes, so this is the prescription. And it just gives my name and it says my outdoor activity plan. LEM:  In 2022, we announced a new collaboration with Parks Canada where licensed health professionals can now prescribe national discovery passes   that give you entry to national parks.  There are only two national nature prescription programs in the world and the first one was actually founded right in the U.S. Cost can be a barrier   where there are day use fees. So we`re hoping that by prescribing these Parks Canada`s discovery passes, that will reduce that barrier to nature   access in a significant way. Well, there are two major theories as to why nature is so good for our brains and the first one is called attention restoration theory. When we   spend time in busy urban environments all the hard edges and traffic and lights and people everywhere really make us have to constantly focus our   attention to kind of navigate around those obstacles. Whereas when you spend time in nature, it`s really this source of soft fascination. So what   that does is it restores your powers of attention and it reduces that fatigue and irritability. The second major theory is called stress reduction theory. So basically when we spend time in nature after stressful events, it helps us be more   resilient and recover faster. When I recommended nature for the first time to a patient of mine, I thought he`s going to look at me funny and he`s going to laugh at me. But   he actually just nodded his head and said, you`re absolutely right, when I spend more time in nature, I feel better.  And so I think healthcare providers sort of have to get over our own mental biases against new sort of lifestyle interventions and prescribe something   evidence-based like nature time more often.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Fifty days from seed to vegetable. I think the prescription helps in that it says this is a good thing to do. This is   worth the effort to do. You need to get out of doors and just be surrounded by the greenery and by nature. LEM:  I want people to know that nature should be a non-negotiable. The thing about heading outside is that you tend to start to naturally be more   active. You`ll feel calmer. You`ll feel less depressed, less anxious. I think it`s just a great way to deal with the stresses of modern life. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Old McDonald`s in the wall, E-I-E-I -- what?  While renovating a home built in 1959, a man in Illinois found a bag from McDonald`s possibly dating back to 1959 that had been hidden in his   bathroom. It featured the original restaurant logo which predates Ronald McDonald, along with burger wrappers and some shall we say stale leftover   fries. Don`t know if he tried one. He said they didn`t have any smell.  We`d guess they were petrifried. There`s something filet-o-fishy about why the meat was missing. It`s a real McGriddle, maybe the work of a   hamburglar. He is an arch`s enemy. And if the thought of that makes you grimace, it is the mayor of McCheesy stories that has enough flavorful   nuggets to make for a happy meal. Fridays are awesome. Horseshoe Bend High school is in New Sight, Alabama. Shout-out to you. Thank you for watching. I`m Carl Azuz. Wishing all of you an amazing weekend. END     

Date: 2022-05-02
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  With four weeks left to go in our spring broadcasting season, we`re happy you stopped by. I`m Carl Azuz. We are not yet living in a world without COVID-19, but we are living in one that`s increasingly removing restrictions related to the virus. The   European Union recently announced that it is out of the emergency phase of the pandemic. What that likely means is that there will be less mass   testing events in Europe.  The EU may pull back from trying to report every case of COVID, and instead focus on how the disease spreads in communities. It`s also looking at ways   to track coronavirus data like it does that of the seasonal flu. This is according to a report by the Reuters News Agency.  Rules are being lifted in several European countries with case numbers and hospitalizations dropping, so are limits on where you can go and what you   can do. In Italy, for instance, people no longer have to show a sort of vaccine passport, proof they`ve been vaccinated or recently recovered from   the virus in order to go to the gym, the movies or a restaurant.  Greece has gotten rid of vaccination and testing rules for people traveling to that country as its tourism season gets going. The European Union   estimates that between 60 and 80 percent of its population has had COVID. The omicron version of the virus is now the main strain spreading there,   and it`s less severe than previous versions like delta.  So even though the World Health Organization has not declared an end to the pandemic and even though it warns that new variants of the virus could   still crop up, some governments and many residents around the world are indicating they`re ready to move on. The nation of China continues to be an exception. We`ve told you about the shutdowns and complications they`ve caused in the city of Shanghai, where   more than 25 million people live. Now, a major clampdown is in effect in Beijing, the Chinese capital that`s home to more than 21 million people.  They now have to show proof of a negative COVID test to go into public areas. Universal Studios has been shut down, all dining and restaurants has   been banned. And this is all happening during China`s Labor Day holiday, an event that typically lasts five days. Despite China`s strict coronavirus   rules though, the disease continues to spread throughout the country.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SELINA WANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Traveling into China`s like entering a fortress. The country has been virtually sealed off since the   start of the pandemic, burdened by strict border controls and the world`s harshest quarantine.  My journey to get in started with three PCR tests in Tokyo.  Seven days out for my flight, I just got my first COVID test.  Back at home, I tracked my daily temperature and packed a suitcase full of snacks to prepare for 21 days in quarantine. Within 48 hours of boarding,   China requires PCR tests at two different government-approved clinics.  This is possibly the most paperwork I ever needed to board an airplane.  I say goodbye to Tokyo, my home for the past one and a half years. Checking in at the airport relatively smooth.  Still checking my documents. I finally have my boarding pass. I`m at the gate. I`m going to China.  Most people on my flight are Chinese citizens. Foreigners can only enter under very limited conditions. It`s even harder for American journalist   because of U.S.-China tensions. All the flight attendants are in full protective gear.  We are ready for takeoff. Here we go.  Flights into China, especially Beijing, are extremely limited. Even though I`ll be based in the capital, first, I`m flying to Yunnan province. After   landing, I get another COVID test. A bus eventually takes us to the quarantine location. No one can choose to where they will be locked in for   the next 21 days.  Hours later, we arrive. I count myself lucky. It`s a hot spring resort converted into a quarantine site. It`s my first time here, but I`ll have to   enjoy the view from the window. I can`t step out onto the balcony or open my door, except for health checkups and food pick up. Two temperature   checks a day, regular COVID tests, sometimes even twice a day.  Food delivery isn`t allowed. But breakfast, lunch, and dinner are part of the quarantine fees. These restrictions are all part of China`s zero COVID   policy.  Across China, tens of millions are sealed inside their homes. Since mid- December, China`s average new daily case count has searched from double digits to more than 20,000. Any positive case and close contacts has to go   to government quarantine.  Entire metropolises brought to a standstill. Most of Shanghai`s 25 million residents have been locked in for weeks, many struggling to get enough   food, and medical care.  In year three of the pandemic, most of the world is learning to live with COVID. But in China, no cases tolerated, no matter the emotional and   economic costs.  (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: R.U.R. was a play published in 1920 that introduced the concept of what? Robots, records, radio, or radon? Rossum`s Universal Robots was a Czech play about machines that take over. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Traditionally, robots have been built out of stiff parts like steel that have a lot of links and have to move in vastly different ways than   people and animals. Advancements are being made in soft robots fabrications that are more elastic and bendable. But these can be difficult to design.   They may need a power source that can move or bend with them. And controlling soft robots can be a challenge especially if their movements   need to be precise, but new research is exploring the softer side of technology. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SUBTITLE:  Mission: Ahead: Making Softer Robots. RACHEL CRANE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Building the next big thing in tech can take time.  LI ZHANG, PROFESSOR AND MICRO-ROBOTICIST, THE CHINESE UNIVERSITY OF HONG KONG:  Sometimes innovation should not be too fast. CRANE:  In this case, it`s moving at a snail`s pace. Meet Li Zhang, engineer professor and now maker of sludge-like goo. ZHANG:  It behaves sometimes like a liquid sometimes like a solid. CRANE:  Inspired by the cheap slime toy that children play with all over the world, Zhang`s team first created the substance in 2021 by mixing a   simple polymer with borax. The magic happened when they added magnetic particles. ZHANG:  Then basically, you get this so-called magnetic slime board.  CRANE:  So when it comes close to a magnet, it can move change shape and grasp objects. Zhang is one of a growing number of scientists worldwide on a mission to better understand a relatively new field in tech, soft robotics. CONOR WALSH, PROFESSOR OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCES, HARVARD UNIVERSITY:  Traditionally, when people think about robotics, they think   about big robot arms in factories that are very strong, very fast and very precise. And in the field of soft robotics, we`re thinking about how do you   make robots that are more flexible, more adaptable. CRANE:  Sometimes, looking to nature helps, like the agile but entirely boneless octopus. In 2016, Harvard unveiled this silicone proof of concept called the octobot. Hydrogen peroxide inside the robot is converted into a gas which   moves its arms. Others are working on soft robotics that mimic human limbs, or even augment them. Experts say that this kind of research may ultimately   have a much wider influence in the world of robotics. CECILIA LASCHI, PROFESSOR, THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SINGAPORE:  Completely soft robots don`t make much sense. I think that now that we have   learned that compliance is helpful, softness is helpful, we cannot build robots without any compliant part. CRANE:  But like any big mission to develop new technology, this one will take time. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Teachers, administrators, homeschoolers, instructors, if you like heads up notices -- well, heads up, you should totally check out our free   CNN 10 newsletter. It`s usually sent out the night before each of our shows and it contains a synopsis, important announcements, links to more info   about many of our stories. You can sign up for daily emails at CNN10.com. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  If people who live in glass houses shouldn`t throw stones, people who walk on glass-bottomed bridges should probably walk carefully?  This is purportedly the longest glass-bottomed bridge on earth or above it. It`s more than feet long and almost feet above a valley between two   mountain peaks in Vietnam. It`s said to be strong enough to support up to 450 people at once, though it`s that up to part that might make you   hesitate if it`s crowded.  It may not be over troubled water, but for those who think the bridge of size is a bridge too high, that would be a bridge too far. Like an arch   enemy, they just couldn`t trust it. Those who liked suspension wouldn`t be crossed at a crossing, even an abridged version would leave them beaming. I`m Carl Azuz. Today`s shout-out goes out to Moanalua High School. It is in Honolulu, Hawaii. We hope you enjoyed today`s show and that you`ll come on back for   more tomorrow. END     

Date: 2022-05-03
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Cars and sea lions, two things you wouldn`t expect to interact. How and where that`s happening is coming up. I`m Carl Azuz. Our first topic concerns the U.S. economy. What happens with it doesn`t only apply to Americans. It can impact many more people around the world. And one indicator, one measure of that economy is the U.S. stock market. April was not a good month for it. In that 30-day period, several major   U.S. stock indexes saw their worst decreases since March of 2020 when the covet pandemic was sinking in. And the Nasdaq, a stock exchange that includes tech companies like Amazon, Apple and Google saw its biggest drop since October of 2008 when the Great   Recession was taking place. A lot of things contributed. COVID cases have been increasing in China, and that country is so populated and so economically powerful that its strict   lockdown policies don`t only hit the Chinese economy, they can affect others as well. The ongoing war in Ukraine is creating global uncertainty. Investors don`t like that. The U.S. Federal Reserve is planning to raise interest rates again. That might help reduce inflation but also might reduce economic growth. And the fears of a recession, a decline in the nation`s economy, are also hurting stocks. Another economic indicator is the U.S. government`s monthly jobs report. The newest one will have information from April, and it`s due out later   this week. American employers have added several hundred thousand jobs each month this year and the unemployment rate, the percentage of workers who   don`t have a job, has been steadily decreasing, both good economic signs. But while Americans average wages have also been increasing, they haven`t risen enough to keep pace with inflation, the hike in prices for many   things we buy. Last year, inflation rates rose to their highest level in decades. They`ve only gotten worse in 2022, and that`s having ripple   effects across the economy. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  At this Stellina Pizzeria in D.C., the food has been hot and the tip steady throughout the pandemic. Have the tips been good during the pandemic? ISABELLA SARMIENTO, ACCOUNTING & OPERATIONS MANAGER, STELLINA PIZZERIA RESTAURANT GROUP:  Oh, for sure. FOREMAN:  But now, the staff, suppliers, customers, everyone is facing a tipping point, and service workers in some places are paying the price. Just ask Isabella Sarmiento, the operations manager. Tipping has grown a lot more complicated. SARMIENTO:  It has. You are not wrong. FOREMAN:  The pandemic by many accounts pushed tips to new prominence in home deliveries, at takeout stands, food trucks, and in ride-sharing   services far beyond the spots where many consumers were used to seeing them. At "The New York Times," food writer Christina Morales says that`s left a lot of folks wondering, where to tip, when, and how much. CHRISTINA MORALES, FOOD REPORTER, THE NEW YORK TIMES:  What`s driving a lot of this anxiety and confusion is the fact that these changes in tipping   have happened so fast. FOREMAN:  She says even the social norms for tipping have become unsettled. Noting one company which tracks credit card transactions found tips rose as   the pandemic began, then leveled off, and now are falling amid the confusion and inflation. So should you tip at a coffee stand, a   supermarket, a convenience store? ANKUR BHALLA, CUSTOMER:  I`m a good tipper. FOREMAN: Some customers say it`s simple. If someone helps you, tip. If you help yourself -- BHALLA:  I was at the airport and I grabbed a bottle of water from a convenience store, and they asked me for a tip. I was like -- that`s not   happening. FOREMAN:  To make it clearer, Stellina`s now puts a 20 percent service charge on your bill. That is the tip, unless you want to add a little more. MORALES:  For me, I personally evaluate the service that I`m receiving. And I also take into account the person behind the counter. And I say, you   know, how much could they possibly be making? SARMIENTO:  Just understand they think we`re all trying to do what`s best for the people around us. FOREMAN: That`s a good tip. SARMIENTO:  Thanks. (END VIDEOTAPE) FOREMAN (on camera):  Inflation is just complicating things more as people count every dollar and try to make every dollar count, on both sides of the   tipping wall. Tom Foreman, CNN, Washington. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these countries is made up of two main islands and about 600 smaller ones? Indonesia, Philippines, New Zealand or Hispaniola? It`s the two main islands the north and the south that distinguish New Zealand from other island countries. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  There`s a species of sea lion, the New Zealand sea lion that is only found in that country. And according to New Zealand`s government, it`s one   of the rarest types of sea lion on the planet. There are an estimated 12,000 of them. They are endangered. The threats they face include everything from diseases and lack of food to being caught   by accident in the fishing industry and even road accidents. These animals like to move inland and they`re encountering cars, people and dogs along   the way. But this isn`t a report about what`s killing them off. It`s about what`s bringing them back to New Zealand`s south island, and what`s being done to   help them and people live together. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  As a volunteer with New Zealand Sea Lion Trust, Hannah Yeardley is monitoring the sea lions where   she lives, near the Otago Peninsula, on the country`s south islands. HANNAH YEARDLEY, VOLUNTEER, NEW ZEALAND SEA LION TRUST:  It`s kind of like babysitting, you know? Especially when they`re pregnant or they have pups,   you kind of make sure that someone`s at least seen them or checked up on them during the day. There is having a weak stretch. COREN:  These pups are part of a new generation of sea lions that have returned to this coast after a long absence. Driven off the mainland over a century ago by hunting, New Zealand sea lions survived on sub-Antarctic islands, until one day in 1993. JIM FYFE, BIODIVERSITY RANGER FOR COASTAL OTAGO, NEW ZEALAND DEPARTMENT OF CONSERVATION:  A female from the Auckland islands had a pup here on the   mainland and she proceeded to have 11 pups. So essentially this one female was responsible for bringing back a population of sea lions to Otago. COREN:  That pivotal sea lion was named Mum. She left behind a dynasty of sea lions that continues to thrive on this coast today. But they don`t just stick to this coastline. FYFE:  They really push inland as far as they can, and that usually puts them up against a road. You take care around those roads. And so, actually,   one of the biggest threats are some of those modes of transport. COREN:  The sea lions have returned to a very different coastline to the one they left over a hundred years ago, one with crowded beaches. Keeping them safe is the job of biodiversity ranger Jim Fyfe. FYFE:  Humans love to go to the beach at summer. The young sea lions are really curious and playful. They know that the surfers are there having fun   as well and so they want to join in. They`re, you know, social animals. Our advice is that you just don`t interact with them. Just ignore them and get on with what you`re doing. Hello. COREN:  Despite their recovery here, New Zealand sea lions are one of the world`s rarest sea lion species, facing threats from disease and accidental   capture in local fisheries. That makes protecting this burgeoning population even more important. And that`s where local residents come in. FYLE:  Communities usually once they start to learn about them, take a real interest and are really protective of the sea lions that are breeding in   their communities. Squeeze through there. Come on. People are just surprised to find these animals in their backyard. COREN:  This year, 21 sea lion pups were born on the Otago peninsula, Fyfe says. It`s the highest number since they return to these shores and will   keep sea lion babysitters like Yeardley busy for years to come. YEARDLEY:  It`s very cool because you`re going to get to see them with faces again. Once you get to know them, sea lions do have personalities.   It`s just seeing them enjoying them while respecting their space of course. That`s the thing that I enjoy the most. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Even in South Dakota, you`re not building a snowman in 60-degree weather. That`s why this came as a surprise to residents of an assisted   living center who woke up last week to see this in the yard. The snow had been imported. A local man had been away at a meeting in the mountains of western South Dakota when they were smacked by a snowstorm.   So, he shoveled a bunch of it into his pickup truck, drove back home to the eastern part of the state, and he and his daughter gave Frosty a new life   outside a care center in Sioux Falls. Well, the sun was hot that day, but they still had some fun before he melted away. Of course, the scene looked more like a winter wonderland.   That`s more common in the bleak mid-winter, but the effort made in a silent night brought a little joy to the world for those who still needed a little   Christmas at springtime, even if critics would have rather decked the halls with a hippopotamus. Wall High School, you guys are wall-some. Shout out to our viewers in Wall, New Jersey. The one and only place we look for your shout-out requests is Youtube.com/CNN10. I`m Carl Azuz. END     

Date: 2022-05-04
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  So glad you found 10 minutes to watch our show. I`m Carl Azuz, and we are covering heat, holograms and hotels today on CNN   10. We`ll start in the nation of India. It is not unusual for heat waves to strike in May and June, but the ones that settled over the country last   month made it India`s third hottest April in 122 years. What kind of temperatures are we talking about? One hundred four degrees Fahrenheit or   higher in the Indian capital. New Delhi saw seven days in a row of that last month. And while 104 is near normal in neighboring Pakistan, across India`s northwest border, at least two cities there recorded highs of more than 116   degrees Fahrenheit late last week. A Pakistani government official said it was like a year without a spring and that that hadn`t happened for decades. A significant lack of weather disturbances and thunderstorms throughout April kept temperatures high and rainfall lower than normal. That`s   according to the Indian government as reported by the Indian express news company. There`s been huge demand for electricity as you might imagine and   that caused a coal shortage in India. Most of the nation`s power comes from coal, millions lost electricity for almost nine hours a day and hundreds of   passenger train routes were canceled through the end of this month so that more cargo trains could get coal to the country`s power stations. Schools were closed in some states, health advisories were issued. That`s how India has dealt with heat waves in the past. Residents were told to   stay indoors and stay hydrated. But not everyone`s able to do that. One Indian official says farmers, construction workers, people who labor outdoors, many of them have had to   suffer in the heat. Crops have been lost and water levels are down. So, is there any relief in sight? Yes, this week, government forecasters expect high temperatures in northwest India to drop between five and seven   degrees on average and by the end of this week, temperatures in Pakistan are predicted to be near where they usually are. But the start of the monsoon rain season which can bring lasting relief to the region is still at least a month away. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these doctors performed the first open heart surgery? Joseph Lister. Virginia Apgar, Daniel Hale Williams or Alexander Fleming? In 1893, before x-rays were even developed, Dr. Daniel Hale Williams saved a life with open-heart surgery. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Operating with holograms might sound like a bit of science fiction but the fact is, this is another example of how new technologies could   eventually reshape medicine as we know it. This goes deeper than Pokemon go, but let`s start there. You`re looking at computer-generated characters   overlaid on real world backgrounds. What if you could apply that idea to a complex medical procedure? That`s one of the goals of mixed reality as you`re about to see, but the concept   has its drawbacks. For one thing, you need the computer equipment to make it possible. That`s expensive. Some people may have trouble adjusting to the technology. Virtual reality for instance can cause motion sickness. There are concerns that doctors   could become too dependent on the technology and that they may not be able to effectively treat people without it. And it`s all new, it hasn`t been   proven or refined yet in the real world, so it`s too early to say if this is the future of medicine or an idea that won`t work in practice. However, efforts to incorporate it are advancing. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RACHEL CRANE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  In this hospital in Israel, Elchanan Bruckheimer is mending a heart using tools the width of pencil   points called catheters. But he can`t see the heart with his own eyes. ELCHANAN BRUCKHEIMER, CATH LAB DIRECTOR, SCHNEIDER CHILDREN`S MEDICAL DIRECTOR, REALVIEW IMAGING:  Imaging is how we understand what`s inside the   patient, what`s going on, where we need to move our catheters. My depth perception has to be down to the sub-millimeter. CRANE:  In recent decades, advances in imaging technologies like X-rays and ultrasounds have helped make this process more accurate and commonplace.   But Bruckheimer believes mixed reality technology can give surgeons an even clearer picture. He`s developing a system that turns medical images into   holograms. That might sound like something out of a movie like the three-dimensional projections you find inside Iron Man`s suit, but Bruckheimer says his   company Realview has been working on a telescope eye for almost 15 years. You need a specialized overhead device to see these holograms though. SHAUL GELMAN, CO-FOUNDER AND CEO, REALVIEW IMAGING:  It`s like a d printer of points of light. So, it allows the physician to see a hologram that is   hovering in front of him he can visualize information and he can interact with it. CRANE:  And as Bruckheimer sees it, that benefits both patients and hospitals. BRUCKHEIMER:  You`re going to do complex procedures quicker, easier and you can do more of those. CRANE:  Some bigger players in technology agree. Microsoft is partnering with hospitals and startups like New York-based Metavis to adapt its   hololens to device for surgery. How does Microsoft`s cloud platform interact with this technology? DAVID RHEW, GLOBAL CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER, VP OF HEALTHCARE, MICROSOFT:  The ability for us to be able to pull the data from the different sources like   electronic health records, that`s all cloud-enabled technology. CRANE:  One issue that could arise, slow bandwidth. This is according to Ngiam Kee Yuan from the National University Health System in Singapore. His   team is collaborating with Microsoft to trial the technology for live operations. NGIAM KEE YUAN, GROUP CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER, NATIONAL UNIVERSITY HEALTH SYSTEM:  We are trying to test out use the use of 5g technology to, you   know, improve our bandwidth and reduce our latency. CRANE:  Some are already working on what they see as the next milestone, projecting holograms right onto the patient`s body. Microsoft believes that   collaboration across the industry could help speed up progress. For Bruckheimer, it`s all about what`s best for the patient. BRUCKHEIMER:  Any improvement we can have that can reduce suffering of our patients is my mission. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Five months ago, a spacecraft lifted off from Texas. The vehicle was made by Blue Origin and for the first time, it was carrying six passengers   at once. Blue Origin is a private American space flight company that`s received tens of millions in grant money from NASA. It doesn`t say how much   it`s 11-minute trip to the edge of space costs but a ticket was auctioned off last year for $28 million. And some critics have questioned whether   private space flight will ever become affordable for the average person. Blue Origin`s mission in December was the third time the company took people to space a couple of them took cameras to document their flight of   fancy. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Laura --   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Light this candle. (CHEERS) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Here we go. SUBTITLE:  Passengers on a Blue Origin flight recently detailed their experience, from training to landing. (CHEERS) DYLAN TAYLOR, BLUE ORIGIN PASSENGER:  It literally is a take your breath away moment. I mean, I literally was gasping. SUBTITLE:  Dylan Taylor and Cameron Bess joined Michael Strahan and three others on the December 2021 flight. TAYLOR:  Then, of course, once you`re up there, once you have main engine cut off, once you have booster separation and you can unstrap, I mean, it`s   just magical I went to the window, as you may have seen and turned myself upside down. So I had the perception of you know really kind of floating in   free space above the Earth. So that was amazing. CAMERON BESS, BLUE ORIGIN PASSENGER:  I did have a little bit of motion sickness when I was in zero gravity, near the end, but it was manageable. My eyes are watering. TAYLOR:  My perception and it was just a brief one, was that I could see pretty much the entire North American continent. I was looking for things   like the moon which I didn`t see and then, of course, when you see the sun, there is no atmosphere to scatter the photons. So it doesn`t look yellow.   It looks it looks bright white like a light bulb. (CHEERS) SUBTITE:  The crew took a supersonic, 10-minute flight that reached 60 miles above the Earth`s surface. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Why go all the way to space just for a few minutes? I mean, once you`re up there, why not check it to a hotel? That`s the idea by a company   called Orbital Assembly. It hopes to start turning this concept into reality by 2025 or 2026. And it would be a luxury hotel. The company`s former CEO told "The Washington Post" last year that a three- and-a-half-day stay would cost $5 million. But think of all the weight you`d lose. Up in space, everyone`s a superstar, every head is in the clouds, every lover`s star crossed, everyone`s above the crowds, who needs a spot where   you`ve got space you`ve docked, don`t need a parking place. The view is great unless you`re scared of heights that fright at night just might make   your feet wish for solid ground back down, to feel all right outside. But one thing space cadets and astro-nuts can all assume is that a space hotel   is remote, as well as miles closer to the moon. Whew! Glad I got through that one. Want to give a shout out today to Lone Peak High School. It is in Highland, Utah. Thanks so much for watching CNN 10. I`m Carl Azuz. END     

Date: 2022-05-05
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  For the first time in 22 years, the U.S. Federal Reserve is raising interest rates by half a percentage point. That`s what   we`re breaking down first today. I`m Carl Azuz. Interest is what banks get paid for loaning people money. If the Federal Reserve, America`s central bank raises interest rates, it means people have   to pay back a higher percentage of the money they borrow. Why would the Fed want to do that? Inflation. The cost of living in America has gone up significantly over the past year as prices on the things we buy have risen. The thinking goes that if   interest rates are higher and it`s more expensive for people and businesses to borrow money, they`ll spend less of it and inflation will settle back   down. It`s not an exact science. If the Fed raises interest rates too much too quickly, it can be like slamming the brakes on economic growth and that   could contribute to a recession. So, the central bank is trying to find a balance between managing decades-high inflation but without hampering   economic growth. That`s what`s behind its decision on Wednesday to raise interest rates. Half a percentage point doesn`t sound like much, but the Fed usually makes   smaller adjustments like the quarter-point rate hike it issued in March. The last time the fed raised the rate by half a point was in 2000, and it   says more raises like this are possible in the months ahead. The Fed says the U.S. labor market, the jobs picture, is strong. But consumer prices have risen at their highest rate in almost four decades and   the Fed doesn`t think inflation`s likely to go away on its own anytime soon. It says COVID-related lockdowns in China are contributing to ongoing   problems with the supply chain. It says the war in Ukraine is contributing to elevated food and energy prices and those had risen last year before   Russia invaded. With all these economic pressures in place, the Fed is hoping its interest rate increases will slow down price increases. New data on inflation itself   is also expected soon. Up next, U.S. President Joe Biden has asked Congress to approve $33 billion in additional assistance to Ukraine. In March, Congress had approved more   than $13 billion in military and aid funding. President Biden says the cost isn`t cheap but that the bill is needed to support Ukraine in its fight   against Russia, which invaded the nation on February 24th. U.S. Senator Rand Paul has suggested that America should sell Ukraine weapons but not give them to the country if doing so increases U.S.   national debt. There are also concerns about America`s own stockpiles of certain weapons running low. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  The stunning success the much smaller Ukrainian military has had against   the Russian invaders would not be possible without the billions of dollars` worth of U.S. and NATO weapons flooding into Ukraine, notably, the   thousands of easy to use highly portable American Javelins and Stingers that for more than two months have taken out countless Russian tanks and   aircraft. JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  Sometimes, we`ll speak softly and carry a large Javelin because we`re sending a lot of those in as well. MARQUARDT:  So many, in fact, that now the U.S. inventory of Stingers and Javelins is running dangerously low. SEN. RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (D-CT):  The closet is bare. Just to give you one example. The United States military has probably dispensed about one-third   of its Javelin anti-tank missiles to Ukraine. MARQUARDT:  While the U.S. wants to give Ukraine what it needs, Pentagon war planners must balance that with not letting supplies dip below what the   U.S. needs. MARK CANCIAN, CSIS SENIOR ADVISOR, INTERNATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAM:  I think we`re at that moment now with Javelins and Stingers. The recent aid   packages have not included more of these missiles. To me, that indicates that war planners have raised that civilian leadership doesn`t want to   exhaust these inventories further. MARQUARDT:  The Biden administration has just requested almost $5.5 billion from Congress to replenish its stocks, but the Pentagon insists the aid   packages for Ukraine have not hurt overall U.S. readiness. LLOYD AUSTIN, DEFENSE SECRETARY:  We will never go below our minimum requirement for our stockpiles. So, we`ll always maintain the capability to   defend this country and support our interests. MARQUARDT:  Fourteen hundred Stingers, about a quarter of the inventory, experts and lawmakers say, has been committed to Ukraine. The Stingers`   manufacturer, Raytheon, which also makes the Javelin, says it no longer has some of the electronics parts, so the Stinger needs to be redesigned. GREG HAYES, RAYTHEON CEO:  We have a very limited stock of material for Stinger production. We`ve been working with the DOD for the last couple   weeks. We`re actively trying to resource some of the material. MARQUARDT:  The new phase of fighting in the flat and open eastern Donbas is changing the fight. U.S. has just committed almost 100 howitzer systems   and tens of thousands of artillery shells, but it`s the Stingers and Javelins that had the greatest impact, and now, according to manufacturers,   getting back to pre-Ukraine inventory levels is going to take years. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these options occupies the greatest surface area? Ross Sea Ice Shelf, Germany, Lake Michigan, or Great Victoria Desert? With an estimated area of 182,000 square miles, the Ross Sea Ice Shelf in Antarctica is the largest of these options. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Scuba diving with leopard seals and a really good dry suit. Ski mountaineering where you actually hike up the mountain you ski down,   kayaking between icebergs and whales, and caving through frozen caverns -- all of these activities are possible for those with the means and the   motivation to explore the frozen continent. You don`t necessarily need a ship to get there, but if you take a seat on the plane you`re about to see,   you`ll need more than $14,000 for a one-day trip and more than $62,000 for a five-day stay. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LUKE BRAUTESETH, ANTARCTIC OPERATIONS MANAGER, WHITE DESERT:  I can`t say I`ve ever flown anywhere that would be as challenging as Antarctica. I`ve   seen penguins on two occasions at our runway. I work for White Desert and I`m the Antarctic operations manager in Antarctica. SUBTITLE:  White Desert offers private flights to Antarctica and has three temporary camps on the continent. BRAUTESETH:  Everything has to come with you, there`s no shop that you can pop down to.  Without the runway, we can`t do anything. All of our cargo   comes in through that, all of our people. It`s certainly nothing like your standard airport. Every season we build it and it`s an ongoing thing that   we maintain. All the ice in Antarctica is slowing moving towards the ocean, so it means about 80 meters every year.  So every year we come back and realign it. One of our biggest issues is the heat. When the runway gets to above a certain temperature, we can`t land planes any longer because it`s just   unstable and obviously, it`s very slippery. For every single flight we do friction testing. Then every season we`ll do ground penetrating radar, make sure there`s no crevasses or anything under   the runway. SUBTITLE: The runway was used to land first ever Airbus A340 on Antarctica in 2021. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We have just landed tell runway 175. SUBTITLE:  Planes have been flying to the continent since the early 20th century. The first landing at the South Pole came in 1956. Antarctica now   has around 50 landing strips, but most who visit still travel by ship. BRAUTESETH:  Spending time in Antarctica is a huge adventure. Every time I get off that plane, I still get that same feeling of just awe. It`s the most amazing place to live for a little while. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  When I saw this next story was theater raised, I thought my producer meant razed with a Z, like it was being destroyed. I was wrong. He meant it   was being raised as in lifted up. And for something that weighs 14 million pounds, hashtag engineering. This was part of a two and a half billion-dollar renovation, using 34 hydraulic   lifting posts, workers lifted New York`s Palace Theater about a quarter inch per hour. After four months of that, the landmark which dates back to   1913 will now sit on the third floor of its building while new retail and entertainment space will be installed below it. Going any higher might bother the fiddler on the roof. The producers of that company might have thought, "Mamma Mia", we could have been Doubtfired   if we didn`t get all our cats in a row. They might have gotten spam a lot from a music man who thought they were out of chorus line. But thankfully,   the show will go on. I`m Carl Azuz. Today`s shout-out takes us to Mount Tabor High School located in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. Thank you for subscribing and   leaving a comment at YouTube.com/CNN10. END     

Date: 2022-05-06
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Two different natural disasters headline today`s show as we wrap up the first full week of May. I`m Carl Azuz. Right now, there are seven wildfires burning in the U.S. state of New Mexico. The National Interagency Fire Center says that`s the most in any   state and while seven might not seem like a huge number in a state that sees hundreds of wildfires every year, the largest one is the second   biggest New Mexico has had in decades. More than 170 homes have been destroyed in the northern part of the state thousands of other houses have   been evacuated.  And if this largest fire, the Hermits Peak Calf Canyon Fire continues to grow, it could threaten more than 15,000 homes in the days ahead.  Earlier this week, NASA reported that the blaze was 20 percent contained, meaning firefighters had blocked it from spreading over one-fifth of the   total area it covered but local governments said they didn`t think authorities would have complete control of the fire anytime soon.  Like other parts of the American West, New Mexico has been experiencing a severe drought. It`s affected almost percent of the state, according to the   U.S. drought monitor. That makes fire conditions worse. Governor Michele Lujan Grisham asked the federal government to declare a disaster in New Mexico. President Joe Biden did that. What it means is that   government help in the form of money and recovery assistance has been sped up to the state.  Governor Grisham said New Mexico has emergency funds of its own to fight the fires but that it`s not enough. According to the National Weather   Service, the average number of acres that wildfires burn in New Mexico each year is around 300,000. That`s about how much has burned so far in this   year`s fire season. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over): Ten-second trivia: Which of these U.S. states is located in "Tornado Alley"? Utah, South Dakota, Wyoming or Michigan?  Look, tornadoes have formed in every state. South Dakota is part of the region nicknamed "Tornado Alley".  (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ: There are different definitions for "Tornado Alley". It`s supposed to describe an area where tornadoes commonly occur in America, but the federal   government says the threat of these storms actually moves around the country depending on the time of year. One thing that`s not disputed about   tornado alley is that Kansas, Oklahoma, and Texas are in it.  This twister was recorded a week ago in Kansas and a line of storms that moved across the southern U.S. this week spawned several reported tornadoes   in Texas and Oklahoma. Buildings were torn apart. A resident of Oklahoma who was interviewed by the weather channel said some structures and houses were completely blown away. Thankfully, no deaths or   injuries were reported.  But the system didn`t just cause tornadoes, it also brought flooding into parts of Arkansas, Kansas, Oklahoma and Missouri, along with the need for   numerous water rescues, according to the National Weather Service. Forecasters said some areas of Arkansas and Louisiana were at risk for severe storms Thursday as this system moved east. Georgia, North Carolina   and Virginia could see storms on Friday.  The United States is said to have the most violent weather in the world and tornadoes are a big part of that. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHAD MYERS, AMS METEOROLOGIST: Technically, a tornado is just a violent rotating column of air coming out of the bottom of a thunderstorm. But it   takes a lot to get that violently rotating column to come out. SUBTITLE: CNN Explains: Tornadoes. MYERS: All you need for a tornado really to form though are thunderstorms and a jet stream. That jet stream`s aloft. It makes the energy. If you have   moisture at the surface, dry air, cold air pushing that moisture up, you can get a tornado to form in any state.  Those days where all the ingredients combined, you get the humidity, you get the dry air, you get the jet stream, you get upper energy in the jet   stream. You get winds turning as you go aloft, the higher you go the winds actually change direction. That can cause storms -- those things all cause   storms to exist and get big. Those are the ingredients that cause a big tornado day. So now the EF scale, Enhanced Fujita scale, starts at zero, goes only to five, and anything above 200 miles per hour is considered an EF 5 tornado.  If you have a zero, you`re going to lose shingles.  A one, you may lose a couple of boards on the roof.  A two, you`ll lose all the windows and maybe even a wall.  A three, EF 3, you will lose a couple of walls on the outside but there will still be a part of the home standing.  And a four, most of the home is gone but you`ll still see the refrigerator, you`ll still see a closet and you`ll still see the bathroom.  An EF 5, you cannot find the house. It`s completely gone. We don`t know how big that Fujita scale will be, how big that tornado will be, literally until after we look at the damage.  We have this -- this almost this triangulation that no other country in the world no region in the world has. We have the Rocky Mountains to our west.   We have the Gulf of Mexico in our south. We have Canada and very cold air masses coming down from the north.  All of those things combined make tornado out, typically the plains, Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Nebraska, all the way to Chicago, as far south as the   Southeast, including Georgia and Alabama, that`s basically the new or the bigger tornado alley. The greatest threat of a tornado is being hit by something that the tornado is moving. If you`re outside or if you`re not protected inside, if you get   hit by a 140-mile-per-hour 2x4, you`re going to be killed. So you need to be inside on the lowest level somewhere in the middle of the home away from   windows.  When you hear the word "warning" and you hear your county, that`s when you need to take cover.  When you hear the word "watch", that means something might happen today, let`s have a plan.  When you hear the word "warning," it`s too late to make a plan. You need to already have the plan. Warning`s the long word, it`s the bad one. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ: Among the jobs you might not think could be done by robots -- manicures. The nail care industry in the United States is worth more than   $8 billion a year. Could a robotic newcomer that offers a lot less conversation and interaction change the way people get their nails done? (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It`s not exactly a cure for getting manicures, UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Robot nails. MOOS: It`s a robo manicure. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The robot doesn`t expect tips. MOOS: Instead of the buzz of conversation, there`s the whirring noise of the robot. A company named Clockwork debuted two robots at a pop-up store in San Francisco recently. The robot takes a 3D photo of each nail, then paints   it.  Says one of the first customers --  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: For $8, I`m happy to have a robot do a much better job than I could do. MOOS: Posted one commenter, so I wouldn`t have to make awkward conversation? Love it. But others were worried. This is kind of sad. I love my nail lady. She works so hard for her business. Clockwork`s co-founder says what they do is different from salons. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Quick serve beauty is what we call it. We`re going to be the express beauty experience versus, you know, the artistry and the   relaxation of a nail salon. MOOS: Eventually, they hope to put the nail robots in airports, malls and gyms. Another company is working on a similar device for home use, selling for 400 bucks. The robo manicure caused one commenter to post: I would be terrified it would eat my fingers. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And the reality is that the machine is very safe. No one has ever been hurt by it. MOOS: Though they have a jokey nickname. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We call it Frankie which is short for Frankenstein. MOOS: What can`t Frankie do? No clipping, no filing, no cutting cuticles. Forget comparisons to --  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Barbie digital nail printer. MOOS: -- that made print designs, but it can`t paint. And for 8 to 10 bucks a manicure, Frankenstein`s creators are hoping customers say --  ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER, ACTOR: I`ll be back. MOOS: Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ: Some may say it`s loony, some might call it beautiful. To let a robot box detox deals right down to the cuticle. It`s an edgy concept, leaving   many who are picky unimpressed from epithelium down to the hyponychium. But when it comes to manicures, if you`ve tried and failed, it might be thought   from those polished clips that that nail machine might nail it. Fridays are awesome! We`ve got Union Grove High School watching today from McDonough, Georgia. It`s great to see you. Our YouTube channel is the one and only place we look for your shout-out requests. I`m Carl Azuz. END     

Date: 2022-05-09
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Jobs shortages and cave art factor in to our first show of the week.  Happy to have you watching. I`m Carl Azuz. The reason the U.S. economy gets so much media coverage especially in even numbered years is because those are election years and the economy is often   one of if not the top issue on the minds of American voters. A new economic indicator came out last Friday, it`s the government`s monthly jobs report.   It gives a snapshot of the U.S. employment picture from the previous month. And for April, the Bureau of Labor Statistics says jobs were added. That`s the same number that was added in March. Each month this year, the   economy`s grown by more than 400,000 new jobs and more than 700,000 in February. There`s also a low unemployment rate. The new report says the percentage of American workers who don`t have a job is 3.6 percent. It was also the same   in April as it was in March, and it`s only one-tenth of a percentage point higher than it was in before the COVID pandemic hit. America still has 1.2 million fewer jobs than it did before coronavirus, but the economy has been closing the gap since almost 22 million jobs were   lost during the shutdowns of 2020. There are challenges though. America`s gross domestic product surprisingly shrank in the first three months of the year. That`s not a good sign.   Inflation`s been a persistent problem since 2021. Soaring gas and grocery prices have put a dent in people`s budgets. Last week`s decision by the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates by half a percentage point could eventually help bring down inflation, but it`ll   make it more expensive for Americans to borrow money for a house, pay down credit cards, pay back student loans and borrow money for cars and   businesses. The stock market, another economic indicator took a hit last week. It was at its lowest point of the year on Friday.  In the midst of these mixed economic messages, we`ve reported on the Great Resignation. Record numbers of Americans leaving their jobs. Some are   finding their way back to the positions they left. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JIM KLIMAS, BOOMERANG EMPLOYEE:  I am officially a boomerang. VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  And so are millions of other American workers today. A boomerang, someone   who left an employer before choosing to return. Boomerangs, like Jim Klimas made up 4.3 percent of all U.S. job switches last year, up from 3.3 percent   pre-pandemic according to LinkedIn. Was there any resistance on your end initially? KLIMAS:  Definitely. Just being concerned that it would feel like a step backward. YURKEVICH (voice over):  Klimas worked in HR at Adobe, but in 2020, he left for a new opportunity. Last year, he returned to Adobe after just 18   months. The average time Americans boomerang back is down from 22 months to 17 months. KLIMAS:  Part of it was during the pandemic it was harder to sink roots into a company. I missed some of the colleagues and the confidence that I   could do important work and add value and have impact was the most important thing. YURKEVICH:  Boomeranging often carries a negative connotation, but that is changing, likely due to the more than 11.5 million unfilled jobs in the   U.S. While a record 4.5 million Americans quit in March. The balance of power has shifted to the employee. LAURA MAZZULLO, FOUNDER, EAST SIDE STAFFING:  Historically, boomeranging was not seen as a positive thing. And I think it`s the first time we`ve   seen employers really welcoming that trend as well to say, we`d love to have you back here. YURKEVICH:  But is it desperation too? MAZZULLO:  Of course. Part of it is that they`re so aware of the competition and they don`t want to lose out. YURKEVICH (voice over):  Will Staney, CEO of Proactive Talent, recruiting firm, says he has three boomerangs working at his 50 person company and   calls them the best untapped secret. WILL STANEY, FOUNDER AND CEO, PROACTIVE TALENT:  They`ve gone and gathered other skill sets elsewhere with the context of what they learned a your   company. The on boarding is smoother. You know, the training, the culture fit is already determined. I think it`s a great, low cost and high quality   way of hiring. YURKEVICH:  It`s also a gut check on the company`s value and culture. STANEY:  A boomerang represents that we`re achieving our goals as a company, that we`re scaling and improving and growing. YURKEVICH:  Like many Americans, Klimas had option when he was looking for his next move. But, ultimately, the familiarity of Adobe, the impact he   felt he could make and remote work helped him seal the deal. Were you surprised that you ended up back in Adobe? KLIMAS:  Yes. Yes. And a lot of it goes back to the worry or the being careful not to feel like I was taking a step backwards. So, when I -- when   it felt right, it was a surprise. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: German chemist Justus von Liebig is credited with creating what? Soda water, baby formula, plastic or fertilizer? In the 1860s, von Liebig made patented and marketed a powdered commercial baby formula. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  His invention was considered the first of its kind. It contained just a few ingredients, milk, malt and wheat flour and potassium   bicarbonate. Within 20 years, there were reportedly dozens of different brands of baby formula available. And today, even the organic formulas   contain dozens more ingredients than von Liebig`s invention.  But there`s a problem, baby formula is getting harder and harder to find in America. In most states, between 40 and 50 percent of the top selling   formula brands was sold out in recent weeks. That`s according to grocery research group Date Assembly, and it says in several states, more than half   of their formula stocks are unavailable.  This apparently started with supply chain problems that welled up in the wake of the COVID pandemic, and when it comes to formula, the issue has   only gotten worse because of a massive recall by one of America`s largest suppliers. It doesn`t just make major brands. It also distributes specialty   formulas needed by babies with allergies or sensitive stomachs. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JACQUELINE HOWARD, CNN REPORTER, CNN HEALTH:  Joy Greene in Springfield, Ohio, is one of the parents impacted by this. Her five-month-old baby   Weston had grown accustomed to a particular Similac formula as many babies do. But a few months ago, Joy started noticing it was really hard to find   Weston`s formula.  That`s because in February, Abbott Nutrition, one of the biggest baby formula producers in the country, recalled several lots of its Similac,   Alimentum and EleCare. Those recalled lots were linked to bacterial infections and a preliminary assessment from the FDA determined that Abbott   did not take steps to prevent products from becoming contaminated during manufacturing. This had made shortages of the formula even worse. Here`s Joy on what her family is going through right now. JOY GREENE, MOTHER:  It`s been scary to like walk down the aisles and see empty shelves and honestly not be able to find the exact formula that we   need. We have been trying different off-brands, store brands, things like that and some of them he`s tolerating okay and some of them he`s not. But   really it`s just been overwhelming and scary. HOWARD:  So here`s what Abbott says they`re doing to help alleviate the situation. The company says they are increasing production at other   manufacturing sites, and they`ve started releasing some specialty formulas on a case-by-case basis.  In the meantime, Abbott says parents can go to their website and enter their zip code to find their preferred formula closest to their area.  Now, the FDA says Abbott didn`t take steps to prevent contamination at their plant in Michigan. Abbott says they tested the formula before   distributing and did not find any bacteria or salmonella. They say they are working closely with the FDA to restart operations at that Michigan plant. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Ancient Native American cave art has been found somewhere in Alabama. You can`t go there to see it. Researchers are keeping the location   a secret so people won`t vandalize it. And even if you could go, you can`t really see the drawings anyway. They`re practically invisible to the naked   eye. They were drawn on a very low ceiling that`s hidden from sunlight. Scientists studying the cave had taken thousands of photos of these   ceilings and three-dimensional images of those photos revealed five previously unknown cave drawings. They`re believed to date back over a   thousand years.  The biggest drawing is 11 feet long. Researchers say it appears to show a diamondback rattlesnake. But exactly who drew these, why they were drawn,   the style they were drawn in, it all remains a mystery. It sure ain`t nouveau or neon. It`s not performance or pop. It`s way pre- pre-impressionism and you could never call it modern. But even if it`s far from precisionism, there`s nothing avant-garde about its expression. The   art decorates the cave with someone`s favorite concepts that still pop in post post-modern times. Today`s shout-out goes out to Locust Grove Middle School in Locust Grove, Virginia.  We can now mention middle schools but you`ve got to be at least 13 years old to make a request, and the only place we look for those requests is   Youtube.com/CNN10. I`m Carl Azuz. END     

Date: 2022-05-10
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. I`m Carl Azuz. Welcome to the show. May 9th is a holiday in Russia. Victory Day commemorates the defeat of Nazi Germany in World War II and it typically features a huge parade of troops   and military equipment in the Russian capital. This year, Russian President Vladimir Putin said NATO, an alliance of European and North American countries, had been increasingly threatening   Russia. And though he didn`t mention Ukraine by name, President Putin described Russia`s actions there as a preemptive strike against NATO   expansion. Ukraine is not a member of NATO, but it said in the past it wanted to be. That nation also marked Victory Day. Ukraine was part of the Soviet Union in 1945, one of the allies that defeated Germany and Ukrainian President   Vladimir Zelenskyy said his country would never forget what its ancestors did in World War II, adding that very soon, there would be two Victory Days   in Ukraine and none in Russia. Meantime, U.S. President Joe Biden said another million dollars` worth of American weapons and field equipment was on the way to Ukraine and he asked   Congress to approve $33 billion in arms and aid for the Eastern European country, in addition to the $13.6 billion that the U.S. approved in March.   The U.S. leader said Ukraine`s international partners have to keep weapons flowing to help the country succeed, but critics of U.S. government   spending have questioned why America is giving Ukraine arms instead of selling them to the country. Russia has accused the U.S. of fighting a proxy war in Ukraine when a nation isn`t directly involved in battle, but it supports a side that is. A   former U.S. ambassador denies that, saying America is helping Ukraine defend itself against a direct Russian attack. One specific part of Ukraine that`s been targeted is its infrastructure. A Ukrainian official says Russia wants to stop Ukraine`s railways from being   used to transport weapons and humanitarian aid. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  The train from Kyiv takes about 25 minutes to reach the Irpin River. But this is the first   time in almost two months that a passenger train has actually been able to roll across the bridge that spans it. One of two rail bridges here has just   been rebuilt. The other is still impassable. A vital link between Kyiv and the bombed-out Irpin suburb was destroyed as Russian troops try to advance   toward the capital. Ukrainian railways says it`s lost access to 20 percent of its network, due either to Russian occupation or Russian bombs. They`ve cut off access to   long stretches of track. Orange vested workers have been quietly repairing this span for weeks, ever since the Russians finally retreated. OLEKSANDER PERTSOVSKYI, UKRAINIAN RAILWAYS:  It`s effectively less than four weeks, which normally would take months and months of civil   engineering work, planning, projecting. So, now, like now when the situation is stopped, everyone works 24/7. MCLEAN:  The railway has been an indispensable tool and getting supplies in and people out of the most dangerous areas. But it`s also been a huge   target for Russian bombs. Repairing the damage is dangerous work. The railways says that well over 100 rail employees have died since the war began, some of those have been fighting on the front lines but many others   said they`ve been just showing up for work. PERTSOVSKYI:  Every morning, railway people are not asking themselves whether to go to work or not, this is their duty. MCLEAN:  But whatever damage is done won`t last long. The army of Ukrainian rail workers is even bigger than Ukraine`s actual active duty military.   Despite the danger, they`re here to stay. IVAN GARMONOVYCH, RAILWAY WORKER:  Where I am going to go? I work here. I`m not going anywhere. MCLEAN:  Staying put so Ukraine can keep moving. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these places occupies the greatest area? Alaska, Caspian Sea, Iran or Mongolia? It`s not just the biggest U.S. state, Alaska`s 665,000 square miles makes it larger than many countries. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  There`s one main road running in and out of the Lowell Point community in southern Alaska. It`s a resort area that`s popular with   tourists and, well, some folks are getting a little extra time there. No one was hurt last Saturday when a landslide blocked the road connecting Lowell Point to the city of Seward. It reportedly started after a single   boulder rolled down onto the street and after that was followed by rocks, rubble, dirt and trees. A 300-foot-wide pile cut off land transportation, so people looking to get around it had to use a boat. A woman who owns a rental property in Seward   says this commonly happens on Lowell Road. The landslide still isn`t stable. The state government has sent geologists to the area to determine when it`s safe enough to start cleaning up the   road before it can reopen. On another American coast, developers and conservationists are trying to build renewable energy facilities without disturbing wildlife. According to   North Carolina State University, renewable power sources typically take up more space than fossil fuel plants and that can destroy habitats block   animals travel routes and in the case of offshore wind turbines threaten birds in the air and marine life below the surface. What can be done about   this? (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE0 JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  New York`s waterways may be best known for skyline views and crowded shipping lanes, yet these busy   waters also harbor a rich community of marine mammals. Local whale species include the iconic humpback, fin whales and the endangered North Atlantic right whale. These photographs captured thanks to   a multi-year aerial survey conducted by Tetra Tech and the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation. HOWARD ROSENBAUM, OCEAN GIANTS DIRECTOR, WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY:  Right off of our shores, you know, in less than the average distance that,   you know, a New Yorker or someone from the tri-state area would commute, these great whales are here. CHATTERLEY:  Wildlife Conservation Society scientist Howard Rosenbaum studies the whale population here in the New York Bight, the area between   Long Island and the New Jersey coast. His mission: to use the latest research methods to protect the whales. ROSENBAUM:  This is one of the busiest urban waterways on the planet and they face threats such as, you know, impacts from shipping which could   include ship strikes or ocean noise incidental entanglement and fishing gear. These areas in the New York Bight along the east coast, you know, under this administration are slated for extensive renewable energy development   which the planet needs. We just want to make sure that it`s done with the best environmental and management practices possible so that wildlife and   renewable energy can co-exist. CHATTERLEY:  In partnership with Norwegian company Equinor which has a major offshore wind project in New York and the Woods Hole Oceanographic   Institute, the WCHS has deployed two acoustic buoys to detect whale calls in real time. ROSENBAUM:  If you can imagine when a whale vocalizes in the New York Bight, like for example a North Atlantic right whale, we can actually   detect those animals. I can get an alert on my cell phone and when that happens at a certain level right now, the National Oceanic Atmospheric   Administration is requesting ships to slow down. CHATTERLEY:  In the future, Rosenbaum says this alert system could be used to mandate boat slowdowns or to directly alert developers and shippers to   the presence of whales, so that they can pause noisy or potentially harmful activities. ROSENBAUM:  It`s a great tool and a great use of the technology that we can begin to use and harness the power of that to help better protect whales. Rosenbaum`s team also takes and analyzes genetic samples from the whales in order to understand more about how this population connects to others like   how they feed and breed. ROSENBAUM:  We`re also trying some new work which is called Environmental DNA, or EDNA, and with that, we`re actually able to detect whale presence   and what they`re eating just by collecting a water sample. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  For 10 out of 10, when people tell Brittany Davis, whoa, that is the tallest dog I`ve ever seen, they ain`t lying. This is the tallest dog on   the planet, according to Guinness World Records, and the extra great Great Dane lives with a family in Texas. His name is Zeus. He`s two years old. His water bowl is the kitchen sink. He does occasionally steal people food off the kitchen counter because at   more than three feet five inches tall, he can. I guess if the world`s biggest dog is actually great. It kind of makes you want to avoid boxers, fence in the bulls, respect the saints, feel sorry   for blues, freshen up Rottweilers, play with the toys, shoe the rats and if you get lost, seek out a pointer, because if the world is going to the   dogs, you don`t want to stay malamute when it comes to finding ciao. Today`s shout-out goes out to Jackson Middle School. Hello to everyone watching in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Our YouTube Channel is the one and only place to request to mention and you got to be at least 13 years old. I`m Carl Azuz, for CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-05-11
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  The value of bitcoin, the levels of two large lakes and a new Facebook store are all dropping. Unfortunately, gas prices   aren`t, and that`s where we start today`s show. I`m Carl Azuz. On Tuesday, the AAA automobile association reported that America`s gas prices had reached their highest level ever at $4.37 per gallon on average.   They`ve risen 17 cents in the past week. Gas prices steadily climbed throughout last year, they`ve only gotten worse since Russia invaded   Ukraine in February. And while U.S. President Joe Biden has repeatedly blamed Russia for higher fuel and energy prices, the American leader`s critics say he hasn`t done   enough to bring them down. The cost of gas is a major driver of inflation. Since late 2021, prices have been rising at their highest rate in decades. The president says he   doesn`t know whether inflation will calm down later this year or get worse next year. He says different economists have different predictions on that,   but he says his administration has to do all it can to bring down inflation. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  I know the families all across America are hurting because of inflation. I want every American to know   that I`m taking inflation very seriously and it`s my top for domestic priority. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  The White House has blamed Republicans for using inflation as a, quote, political talking point in advance of this year`s midterm elections,   but not taking action to reduce costs for Americans. But Democrats controlled the White House and both chambers of Congress, and a recent CNN   poll conducted by SSRS found that more than two-thirds of Americans don`t think the Democratic Party`s economic visions match up with their own. Analysts say the president didn`t offer any new proposals for curbing inflation but the Biden administration is considering lifting tariffs or   taxes on certain goods imported from China. Up next, when we`ve talked about bitcoin, the world`s most famous cryptocurrency, one thing we`ve pointed out is that it`s volatile. Up one   day, down the next. Digital currencies aren`t controlled by a bank or government and that`s what their fans like about them. They`d rather that   crypto`s value be determined by a network of computers instead of a country. But the downside is cryptocurrencies aren`t stable. High inflation drives down their value and when technology stocks drop, crypto can, too. Late   last year, the value of one bitcoin was close to $70,000. At one point, yesterday it was below $32,000. So, mining bitcoin, which takes a lot of computers and electricity, can be considered risky. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NICK WATT, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Cool, damp, bucolic, this place is perfect for apples and perfect for bitcoin mining. Plenty of   land for mining farms, servers don`t need as much AC to cool them. All that water means cheap green hydroelectricity. And --   MALACHI SALCIDO, CEO, SALCIDO ENTERPRISES:  Electricity is about 65 percent of our total costs. WATT:  Eight thousand servers right here, all these about 15 grand each. WATT:  You`re pouring a lot of money into this. SALCIDO:  That`s correct. WATT:  A quarter of all the electricity generated here in Douglas County now powers Bitcoin mining, many locals still trying to wrap their heads   around it. MAYOR JERRILEA CRAWFORD, EAST WENATCHEE, WA:  We understand the process of growing fruit and you see it, it progress. You don`t see the Bitcoin. WATT:  Here is how Bitcoin mining works, hundreds of Bitcoin transaction, Biff pays Candy, Morag pays Hamish, Suraj pays Zuma are bundled into a   block, computers like these all over the world race to solve a complex math problem. The winner gets to upload that block to the Blockchain, a vast ledger, now more than 700,000 blocks long. A new block is uploaded every 10 minutes. Mine a block and you earn 6.25 Bitcoin. SALCIDO:  And this location is one of seven locations that we built and operate in. WATT:  China was the global Bitcoin mining capital, but last year the Communist Party cracked down. DANIEL ROBERTS, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, DECRYPT:  And a lot of it migrated to the U.S. and it happened really quickly. As of right now, the estimates are   that 35 percent of the world`s Bitcoin mining is now in the U.S. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these bodies of water is the most shallow? Sea of Azov, Lake Erie, Ohio River, or Colorado River? With an average depth of 20 feet, the Colorado River is the shallowest body of water on this list. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Most of its water starts out as snow, in the Rocky Mountains of Colorado, Utah, and Wyoming. As it melts in the spring, it eventually flows   into the Colorado River and then runs southwest through Arizona and Nevada. In all, seven Western states and part of Mexico benefit from the Colorado River, it irrigates more than 5 million acres of farmland. Parts of it   flooded in 2018, but today, whether you`re talking about Lake Mead on the border of Arizona and Nevada, or Lake Powell on the border of Arizona and   Utah, you`re talking about part of the American southwest fed by the Colorado River where an ongoing drought is changing some landscapes and   threatening to change some livelihoods. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BILL WEIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Just a couple weeks ago, this part of Lake Powell was pretty enough to put in a brochure. But today,   there is no water, only sand. Can`t paddle around Lone Rock anymore. If you haven`t been out west in a while, haven`t seen the state of the Colorado River and its reservoirs, you would be shocked. This is what Powell looked like just last spring, when you could still float around Lone Rock. But the satellite shows it losing island status as   the lake level fell over 40 feet. And the lake used to go -- used to go half a mile around the corner and now it starts way back here. I cannot believe this. While hurricanes, floods and wildfires can upend your life in a moment, droughts are slow motion disasters, and this one is now in its 23rd year.   With the region`s population booming and another winter without enough snow, there are no signs of relief. But when you`re houseboating on what`s left of Lake Powell, it`s still gorgeous. It`s still easy to forget just since the mid-`80s, the water   levels have dropped 177 feet. That`s like ten of these yachts stacked on top of each other. KENNETH RUNNELS, CHIEF ADMINISTRATOR, ANTELOPE POINT MARINA:  This is the temporary dock, gets us access to the marina. WEIR:  So the tourism industry has no choice but to adapt, making ramps longer as the lake gets lower. RUNNELS:  This was connected straight up there. So --   WEIR:  At one point, you would have been high enough that would have been a straight angle. RUNNELS:  Yeah. WEIR:  This is not a decade or two. This is a year or two since it`s dropped. RUNNELS:  Yeah, this is within two or three years. MAX LAPEKAS, CO-OWNER, LAKE POWELL PADDLEBOARD AND KAYAK:  If it continues to go down another 10, 15 feet, we might have to shutdown. WEIR:  For Max Lapekas, the changing canyons means more people eager to explore them in his rental kayaks and paddle boards, but not enough safe   places to put them in. And he knows the big picture, 40 million people and their animals and crops in seven states and Mexico depend on Colorado River   water not to re-create but to live. LAPEKAS:  Manmade climate change I do believe is a thing to a certain extent, but I do believe the Earth goes through cycles, and this could just   be another cycle. But I don`t see any good evidence of it getting any better anytime soon. WEIR:  In a first of its time Gallup poll, one in three Americans say they`ve been personally affected by weather in the past two years. And for   those who have, regardless of party, they are much more likely to say the climate crisis demands action. But only 3 percent say they`ve experienced drought. This may be because for most, tap water keeps flowing, and here house boaters keep coming. What do you say to someone who sees this as proof, alarming proof of sort of a manmade climate crisis? RUNNELS:  Some of it is manmade, there`s no doubt about it. You`ve got more users using the water out of the Colorado River. You`ve got more -- you`ve   got more of everything than you had 50 years ago. It`s that simple. WEIR:  Would you label your business a victim of drought? RUNNELS:  We`ve had to change the way obviously the way we do a lot of things. At this point, I would not say we`re a victim. I would say we`re an   adapter. WEIR:  And from now on it seems, anyone who wants to live in the American southwest will have to be an adapter. Scientists tell us this is the worst drought in 1,200 years and for the first time, they`re restricting some of the allocation rights of the   Colorado River water. Some farmers in Arizona are among the first having to cut back. It`ll change the way agriculture operates going forward, city   development going forward, because if this drought, heaven forbid, continues and the population keeps booming, adapting means learning to live   with a lot less water. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Even though Amazon and Microsoft have closed many of their retail stores, Facebook parent company Meta has opened its first. What could you   buy there? Virtual reality headsets and video calling devices for when you can`t or don`t want to physically share the same space with others. It`s   also a place for people to try out new applications and video games. It could be an extensive immersive experience assuming you`re not prone to   motion sickness. But whether it makes people more Metaversed in technology, putting them on an Oculus quest for Meta world peace or if it just becomes a PlayStation   that revives daydream views when they`re linked up, the reality is it`s still virtual and the neo focus they envision through the HoloLens is still   a mirage. Somersworth Middle School, we see you watching from Somersworth, New Hampshire. Thank you for doing that. People over age 13 can request a mention by subscribing and commenting on our YouTube channel. I`m Carl Azuz. END     

Date: 2022-05-12
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. I`m Carl Azuz for CNN 10. The United States imports more goods from China than any other nation. Between 18 and 19 percent of the goods brought into America come from   China, the Asian country`s been the world`s largest exporter of goods since 2009, according to Investopedia. It`s known as the world`s factory. China is able to make things at lower cost than other countries and that can result in lower prices people have to pay. But the downside is that   when there are supply problems in China, like there are now, they can ripple around the world. We`ve reported on the communist country`s strict zero COVID policy. While other nations have moved toward living with the virus, China continues to   apply large scale lockdowns and mass testing policies whenever cases are detected. The country says this policy quote puts life first and that it`s   effective at keeping coronavirus from spreading. But critics say it goes too far, that it`s hurting that country socially and economically, and that it`s time for China to change it. Right now,   there`s either a full or partial lockdown in more than 30 Chinese cities. As many as 214 million people have been affected. There`s no sign China will make any changes and with strict containment rules in place in cities like Shanghai, which is China`s financial center,   manufacturing output is only a fraction of what it normally is, and unused factories have been turned into quarantine centers. Despite protests from some Chinese workers what this means for businesses that are oceans away is that wait times for products are months longer than   usual. Companies from Apple to General Electric say supply problems in China are hurting businesses in America and some small companies that   depend on China to make their goods are afraid of going out of business. Prices on Chinese products are expected to rise around the world. Some experts predict that Chinese supply chain problems could get worse this   year than they were in 2021, and that businesses may look to manufacture their products in other countries. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: What is the lightest metal on Earth? Titanium, lithium, aluminum or magnesium? Of all the metals, lithium is the lightest. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Of all the cars, SUVs and trucks in America, less than one percent of them are electric. That`s according to the Reuters News Agency. But the   U.S. government says sales of electric and hybrid cars are growing almost doubling from 308,000 in 2020 to 608,000 in 2021. Like gas powered   vehicles, they have their pros and cons. Electrics are less pollutive to drive than other cars and you can charge them at home without going to the gas station. But charging stations are   generally harder to find and it takes a lot longer to charge an EV than it does to gas up an internal combustion engine. EVs are quieter and require   less maintenance, but they`re more expensive to buy and their battery packs are expensive to replace, while it`s far less likely you`d replace the   engine of a gas powered car. Still, with sales on the rise, one thing electric car makers need is lithium. It`s the lightest of the metals and a crucial part of the   batteries for computers, smartphones and electric cars. But mining and refining lithium can threaten the natural environment and contribute to   pollution. So there`s a trade-off there. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PETER VALDES-DAPENA, SENIOR AUTO REPORTER, CNN BUSINESS:  Eight thousand feet beneath my feet, there`s enough lithium to power America`s electric   car industry into the foreseeable future. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  There is a treasure potentially worth billions of dollars. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  He takes us to a remote part of California near the border with Mexico. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And a billion-dollar project promising to transform this region. VALDES-DAPENA:  Now what some people are calling California`s lithium valley is an economic and environmental wasteland but it could be on the   cusp of a boom like this area hasn`t seen in 60 years. It`s not like any big secret, it`s not like people didn`t know there was lithium in the groundwater here before, just wasn`t worth enough to bother   getting it out. But now with lithium prices going through the roof companies that before were just concentrating on geothermal energy are   seeing even more potential in the metal that`s in the water. Geothermal companies like energy source that has operations in the southern tip of the Salton Sea and is modifying its facilities for lithium   extraction. Why is there so much lithium in the ground here? DEREK BENSON, CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, ENERGYSOURCE MINERALS:  So geologically, this is, you know, an interesting place. Colorado River has   cut canyons in the west -- all of that mineral, all of those deposits have made their way here. VALDES-DAPENA:  I have heard that there is theoretically at least enough lithium in this area to supply all the electric cars in America for some   time. BENSON:  There certainly is a lot of lithium potential here at the Salton Sea. You could -- you could calculate approximately, you know, a little   over a hundred thousand tons per year of lithium, you know, battery products. That`s quite a lot and certainly more than the us consumes right   at the moment. I think there`s a realistic opportunity to potentially double that. VALDES-DAPENA:  Geothermal facilities will use a method of extraction where they will both create geothermal power and collect the valuable lithium   from the hot brine deep below. This involves drawing the lithium from the brine after it has completed its journey to help produce electricity. It`s   clean energy making clean energy, and the kind of investment and opportunity that could transform a region that only a half century ago was   full of such promise. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This is the story of the miracle sea in the desert, the Salton Sea. FRANK RUIZ, SALTON SEA PROGRAM DIRECTOR, AUDUBON:  If you were -- you came here during the `50s and `60s, you will find most likely people from   Hollywood, the luminaries from southern California coming to boat and playing golf. And only 50 years later, this is what we have. It went from   being the western Riviera to being one of the worst nightmares environmentally and public health-wise. VALDES-DAPENA:  What happened? RUIZ:  We started losing water. The water became more saline. There were massive fish die offs we have more water being evaporated leaving more salt   behind and other elements. The sea is an example of what is happening uh much all around the West. VALDES-DAPENA:  While the geothermal companies are ramping up testing and facilities for regular lithium production, automakers from around the   country are visiting the area and staking claim. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The automaker says it plans to be carbon neutral by 2040. VALDES-DAPENA:  If automakers hope to fulfill their EV ambitions over the next decade, some like General Motors are cutting deals with local   geothermal companies as a way to ensure their lithium supply chains. ROD COLWELL, CHIF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND DIRECTOR, CONTROLLED THERMAL RESOURCES:  Mary Barra`s leadership and more the sustainability side and   localizing of minerals, the federal administration really advanced that relationship. So, you know, stage one is 20,000 ton per year lithium   hydroxide facility, which will go to General Motors. And beyond stage one, we`re looking at another hundred thousand for stage two. VALDES-DAPENA:  And you would then ship that to a battery manufacturer? COLWELL:  Yes. So, at the moment, there`s no real sort of the precursor or cathode manufacturers in the United States. So, currently that would be the   case which is a bit of a crying shame. I mean to put it on a truck, put it on a ship, send it to South Korea or China and then send it back as a as a   cathode active material. The opportunity really is a blank canvas out here to co-locate those facilities would make commercial sense. VALDES-DAPENA:  And that opportunity is quickly being fulfilled. Already Italvolt has announced plans to build a massive battery production facility   in the valley they could supply batteries for up to 650,000 EVs a year, and create possibly 2,500 jobs in the area. What are your fears in terms of if it`s not done right? How could it be done wrong? RUIZ:  Not being able to provide the benefits, you know, they are -- they claim to at least -- you know, they`re promising to provide and the kind of   jobs, you know, for the community, direct and in-direct benefits to the Salton Sea. If all the conditions are played correctly, this can be really good for the economy. This can be really good for the region. Nationwide, it can be a   catalyst. If it is done right, it can be really good. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Launching a rocket typically takes a lot of fuel. What if instead of blasting off, you were to spin the rocket around and around so fast that   you could then fling it towards space. That`s the idea behind Spin Launch, a startup company that uses a centrifuge, a sort of high-tech slingshot to   get a rocket up to 5,000 miles per hour and then release it. After it`s in the sky is when its engines would fire up and carry it to suborbital space. If this gets off the ground, so to speak, the company   hopes it`ll be a lower cost launch option. So, is this the central future of space travel? When it gets up to speed, will folks one day say may the centripetal force be with you? Or is it a   slingshot in the dark that makes head spin but otherwise fails to catapult changes in Star Treks. It`s certainly space food for thought on your launch   break. I`m Carl Azuz. You or some of you anyway are watching from Derby, Vermont. Shout-out to North Country Union Junior High School. We will fling another show your way tomorrow. END     

Date: 2022-05-13
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Thank you for taking 10 minutes for our show this Friday. I`m Carl Azuz, and it`s always good to have you watching. Some gloomy statistics related to drug overdoses headline today`s program. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control says in 2021, almost 108,000 Americans   died of overdoses. That`s the most the nation has ever seen in a year, and we`ve reported info like this several times recently because new records   keep being set. The number of deaths increased for several different types of drugs, from opioids like fentanyl to stimulants like methamphetamine and cocaine. But   two-thirds of the fatal overdoses were from the synthetic painkiller fentanyl or drugs like it. Critics of the Biden administration say the   government needs to take more action, spend more money and set aside more resources to deal with America`s drug abuse. But the Trump administration and the Obama administration were also urged to do the same thing. And despite years and billions of dollars committed   by the federal government to fight against illegal drug use, the problem has only gotten worse. Okay. Are there any silver linings to the CDC`s report? Overdose deaths from natural drugs or semi-synthetic drugs like prescription medications   decreased a little last year from their previous levels. And while more deaths were recorded in than there were in it wasn`t as big of an increase   percentage-wise as the one recorded between 2019 and 2020. Government health officials have blamed the COVID pandemic for playing a role in drug overdoses. Experts say it`ll take time effort and social   changes to make a meaningful dent in America`s drug problem. Next story, over the two and a half months we`ve reported on the war in Ukraine, officials estimate there have been tens of thousands of troops   killed or wounded and roughly or more civilians killed or wounded. We`ve showed you pictures of extensive destruction throughout the Eastern   European country. What can be done to preserve the thousand-year-old religious and cultural heritage of this land? (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORTER:  Over the first 38 days of Russia`s war on Ukraine, nearly 200 cultural sites have been potentially damaged. Memorials and places of   worship have been impacted the most. To try and preserve Ukraine`s heritage and cultural sites, an app has been developed. It lets people save   landmarks, at least digitally in a place safe from missile attacks. SOREN LA COUR JENSEN, BLUE SHIELD DENMARK CHAIR:  Backup Ukraine is an app which has been developed quite quickly just as the war in Ukraine started.   You can actually take your mobile phone, it just has to be a newer model, and with the app, you can just take photos. You have to take a series of   photos. For instance, if it`s a statue or a fountain or something like that, you`ll need to take photos all around to get all the details. You can also film it   as a movie, and then the software of the app will generate a three- dimensional model of what you are documenting, what you are filming and photographing. And in that way, we have a very detailed three-dimensional model of this statue or fountain or building and you can actually use that then if they   are being damaged or destroyed to rebuild or to repair from this documentation. It`s very democratic. It actually gives the resource, the tools to the whole population of Ukraine. People can decide for themselves what they   think is heritage to them. YURI ARTIUKH:  During this war, we`ve seen how fast things could be destroyed. This is just one of my favorite places in Kyiv to be, and this   stone has been here since the 1500 years anniversary of Kyiv, the capital of Ukraine. And I just -- love this place. That`s why I decided to scan it   to preserve it for the eternity. JENSEN:  If the common heritage is disappearing, then you have less of a basis to develop your community on and they`re actually attacking and   damaging the memory of the country and also the identity of Ukraine. Set aside the people which, of course, are the most important to protect and to   help, then the culture and the heritage is what defines Ukraine. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Chaturanga is believed to be an early version of chess originating in what place? Persia, China, India or Egypt? The game thought to be a precursor to chess likely dates back to 6th century India. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  A historic chess match concluded this week in 1997. It pitted grandmaster Garry Kasparov who`d been world champion since 1985 against   Deep Blue, a computer built by IBM, to show off artificial intelligence. The 1997 event was a rematch. Kasparov had played and defeated Deep Blue a   year earlier, the computer had won a game but lost the overall match. But then programmers upgraded Deep Blue, and when the two opponents faced off for the second time the machine ultimately won. For throwback Friday, we`re bringing you an original CNN report from 1997 when one of the games in that match ended in a draw. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And now he has accepted a draw and a magnificent display by Deep Blue. He can`t believe it. SUBTITLE:  May 11, 1997, World chess champion loses to IBM computer. CYNTHIA TORNQUIST, CNN REPORTER (voice-over):  IBM`s chess playing super computer Deep Blue outmaneuvered the world`s highest ranked human player   Garry Kasparov into accepting a third consecutive draw. The outcome stunned the experts. MIKE VALVO, GRAND MASTER COMMENTATOR:  And this computer has widened the dimension of what`s going on in these games. It`s increased the   possibilities. This is going to change the game. They`re going to show new ways of playing these complex end games. TORNQUIST:  Spectators greeted the 34-year-old Russian with a lengthy standing ovation. GARRY KASPAROV, WORLD CHESS CHAMPION:  There are many, many discoverers in this match, and one of them that sometimes computer plays very human moves.   We have to praise machine for understanding very, very deeply positional factors. I think it`s outstanding scientific achievement. TORNQUIST:  The draw came after 49 moves and just over four hours of often intense play that kept many spectators on the edges of their seats. For some, watching chess might be tantamount to watching paint dry or golf on television. However, it`s actually been very entertaining. And when   crucial moves are made, the mood is highly dramatic. UNIDENTIFED MALE:  Look at Garry. That jacket opened up a little bit there. We`re watching now because when Gary takes it off, then he`s in trouble. TORNQUIST:  While the computer played some baffling unconventional moves at the start of the game, it was the computer`s end game that astonished even   those who have helped to program it. JOEL BENJAMIN, IBM DEEP BLUE TEAM MEMBER:  I think that Deep Blue played a very good game. It played very aggressively and without the usual fear that   human player has for playing Garry Kasparov. KASPAROV:  Tomorrow, I will have to face another difficult challenge. Probably the only good thing is not to resign in advance. TORNQUIST:  The sixth and final game of the match is scheduled for Sunday afternoon. Cynthia Tornquist, CNN, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Walter Ortman is 100 years old. He`s been working at the same place since he was 15. It`s a textile business in Brazil and because of that,   Orthman holds the Guinness World Record for the longest time spent working for the same company. He says his position in sales has been a great job he wouldn`t have found anywhere else and that`s why he never considered leaving it. He likes the   commitment. He says he`s happy and lives well. And Ortman who recently broke his own record for company longevity has no plans to retire. So, there`s no doubt he`s a company man. He`s in good company. He`s in the company of record holders. He`s judged by the company he keeps. He`s a businessman who`s all business, minding his business in the business of making business history. We say give that centenarian salesman a raise   via C-note. I`m Carl Azuz and Fridays are awesome. Mobridge-Pollock Middle School gets today`s shout out. It is in Mobridge, South Dakota. The one way to request a mention is to leave a comment on each day show at youtube.com/CNN10. END     

Date: 2022-05-16
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  With two weeks left to go in our spring broadcasting season, we`re happy to have you watching our show. I`m Carl   Azuz. In the city of Buffalo, New York, local and federal investigators are searching for answers after an unprovoked act of violence was carried out   on Saturday. Police say an 18-year old suspect drove to Buffalo from another area that`s hours away. After Payton Gendron arrived at a   supermarket, he`s accused of shooting several people in the parking lot before moving inside the store and attacking more there. Buffalo`s police commissioner says the suspect was heavily armed and wearing body armor, which is why he wasn`t stopped when a security guard   shot him. The security guard was a retired police officer and one of people who were killed in the shooting. Three others were injured in the attack   but they`re expected to survive.  After police arrived, they say the suspect eventually dropped his gun and surrendered he has pleaded not guilty to the initial charge of first-degree   murder. Why did he allegedly do this? One thing investigators are looking at is a manifesto, a public declaration of views that was reportedly posted online under the name of the suspect.   The manifesto`s author claimed to be a white supremacist and spoke out against Jews and other races. Of the 13 people who were shot, 11 were   African-American and two were white, according to police. Authorities are calling the attack a hate crime, an act that can be motivated by racism. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOHN C. GARCIA, ERIE COUNTY SHERIFF:  It was straight up racially motivated hate crime, from somebody outside of our community, outside of the city of   good neighbors as the mayor said, coming into our community and trying to inflict that evil upon us. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Prosecutors are expected to announce more charges against the suspect. Also, as we produced today`s show, we were getting reports of   another separate attack at a church in Laguna Hills, California, where at least five people were shot on Sunday. CNN.com will have the latest   information on that. Our second story today follows up on something we reported on Wednesday concerning the rise and fall of bitcoin. The cryptocurrency`s recent rise   was last autumn when the value of one bitcoin was close to seventy thousand dollars. The fall was last week when that value dropped to below thirty   thousand dollars. What it`ll do in the months ahead is anyone`s guess. Some experts say one bitcoin could still be worth a hundred thousand dollars or more by year`s end. But others say bitcoin and crypto in general   could go the other direction altogether. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BORIS SANCHEZ, NEW DAY WEEKEND ANCHOR (voiceover):  It`s touted as nearly impossible to counterfeit, fast to transfer, keeping users anonymous, and   not beholden to any central bank. The appeal of cryptocurrency has led to skyrocketing value. Its market cap peaking at $3 trillion before recently   dropping to $1.2 trillion. ELON MUSK, CEO, TESLA:  Well, it`s a future of currency. It`s an unstoppable financial vehicle that`s going to take over the world. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I get that, but what is it, man? SANCHEZ:  Made possible by Blockchain technology, the most popular cryptocurrencies are virtually mined. Sophisticated software crunching   complex, computational math problems with the first to find a solution winning a block of digital coins which users can then sell. Boosted by an unprecedented level of easy money in low-interest rates and stimulus spending, cryptocurrencies soared the last couple of years. FRANCIS SUAREZ, MAYOR OF MIAMI:  And it`s already changed the way our system works. SANCHEZ:  Investors, entrepreneurs, and even governments bought in. Miami Mayor Francis Suarez pushing to make the city the U.S. crypto capital. And   El Salvador adopting Bitcoin as an official currency. NAYIB BUKELE, PRESIDENT, EL SALVADOR:  In El Salvador, we are trying to rescue this idea and it started to sign up our country for the future. SANCHEZ:  But the mining process consumes tons of energy which presents serious environmental concerns. The anonymity also invites crime. Crypto   has been used for everything from buying illicit drugs to paying off hackers and ransomware attacks. Critics also charged that crypto scams are   rampant. The mania has led to instability. Prices spiking and crashing, and in the last month alone, close to a trillion dollars` worth of value has been   lost. Given the extreme volatility in cryptocurrency markets, a newer kind of coin has become increasingly popular. Stable coins like Tether are backed   by hard assets, things like bonds. They allow users of Tether to exchange one coin for one U.S. dollar at any given time. Similarly, algorithmic stable coins, like TerraUSD are not backed by hard assets, but a nebulous term called financial engineering that ties it to   the U.S. dollar. That financial engineering has recently spooked investors. And over the last few days, both of these coins have faltered. Tether, the world`s largest stable coin, broke its peg from the U.S. dollar before rebounding. And TerraUSD fell into a death spiral dropping to just   16 cents as of Saturday. Terra`s sister coin Luna also lost more than 90 percent of its value in just 24 hours. ETHAN WU, FINANCIAL TIMES:  They`re built on these quite complicated mechanisms that rely on people trusting the system. And as soon as trust   evaporates, the entire thing can collapse. SANCHEZ:  The drop triggering a panic with a recent report indicating that regulators at the Federal Reserve are concerned little oversight could doom   confidence in the entire digital economy. WU:  I think right now is the kind of pivotal testimony for crypto to either prove the doubters wrong that there is something new, different, and   valuable here, or I think the entire industry will start to look like a very bizarre sideshow that people should ignore. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: What is the popular term for the second full moon in a calendar month? Red moon, blood moon, blue moon, or harvest moon? The phrase "once in a blue moon" can refer to the second full moon in a month. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  But it`s a moon of a red shade that stargazers across the Americas were looking up for on Sunday night the total lunar eclipse was also at   least partly visible in Africa Europe and some Pacific nations.  It was called the "super flower blood moon" and here`s what all that means: a super moon might appear to be bigger and brighter than a normal full   moon, because it occurs when the moon is closer in its elliptical orbit of earth. It was there at perigee on Sunday night. Flower because as the old   farmer`s almanac says this is the time of year when flowers bloom in the northern hemisphere. And blood is the result of the moon`s reddish shade   during a total lunar eclipse. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RACHEL CRANE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  A lunar eclipse is when the moon passes through the earth`s shadow this only occurs during a full moon.   Two factors decide which of three possible eclipses the moon will experience: the tilt of the moon`s orbit around the earth, and which of the   earth`s two shadows the moon falls behind. The earth`s darker inner shadow is known as the umbra and the lighter outer one is called the penumbra.  The penumbral eclipse is when the moon passes through -- you guessed it -- just the penumbra. NASA says this type of eclipse is so subtle that if you   didn`t know it was happening, you might not even notice it.  A partial eclipse is when the moon only gets covered by part of the earth`s umbra, so only part of it is shaded in darkness by the earth. A partial   eclipse happens at least twice a year. And then there`s the big one, the total lunar eclipse. These are rare, often separated by years, and require the moon, earth and sun to be in   perfect alignment. But don`t think this blacks out the moon, as the moon shifts deeper into the umbra, it takes on a red hue which is sometimes   called a blood moon.  The moon turns red because the atmosphere is filtering out color at the opposite end of the visible spectrum, the blue light. The short wavelengths   of blue don`t travel as far as the long red wavelengths so they scatter before reaching our eyes, leaving behind the red glow.  Not everyone on earth can see a lunar eclipse at the same time. You`ll need to be in an area facing the moon during the moments it`s shaded by earth.   Unlike a solar eclipse, you don`t need any special equipment to enjoy a lunar eclipse. They`re safe to watch at any stage, although a pair of   binoculars might make it more fun. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  If you`re a millionaire and you like spending your money on skeletons, and who doesn`t, all this could have been yours. The Christie`s   Auction House just sold off a velociraptor, at least some of the bones of one, for almost $12.5 million. That`s almost twice what they thought it`d   go for. Christie says 126 of these bones are real, the rest had to be fabricated, including most of the head according to "The New York Times". Now some would call $12.5 million outrageous, but others would call it cretaceous. And a Mesostoic investor who`s not dino-soured on the market   might think nothing of digging up monstrous amounts of money to Triassic his claw and managing a skeleton of ancient history as long as it had good   bones. We are shouting out the Roughriders today. We`re talking about you, the students of Red River High School in Grand Forks, North Dakota, for CNN 10.   I`m Carl Azuz. END     

Date: 2022-05-17
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Economic experts are increasingly sounding the alarm about a possible recession. What that is and why it matters are our   first topics this Tuesday. I`m Carl Azuz. A popular definition of recession is two consecutive quarters of decreasing economic growth -- sounds technical and maybe not something a major   concern. So why is it? A healthy economy is always growing. It`s always expanding. So, if you have at least two quarters in a row, basically a six-month period or more when the economy is shrinking, you`re likely to see company   sales drop, gross domestic product drop exports drop, people losing jobs and having trouble finding new ones and consumers spending less money on   goods. That`s not all happening right now. The U.S. economy did contract or shrink in the first quarter of this year, but consumer spending was strong in the   winter and early spring and the jobs picture is overall a good one. The unemployment rate is very low and the economy has added 400,000 jobs or   more in each month of 2022. These are some reasons why President Joe Biden said last month that he wasn`t concerned about a recession anytime soon. However, there are economic storm clouds over America. Inflation is a big one we`ve talked about. The jump in prices of many things we buy hit their   highest levels in decades last year and they`ve only gotten worse since then. The president`s critics blame his policies for driving up oil prices which are a major factor in inflation, and they say government spending from the   $1.9 trillion COVID relief package he signed last year also caused inflation to get worse. That package came in addition to those passed   during the Trump administration. Inflation is expected to be a major issue in the upcoming U.S. midterm elections, one that could hurt President Biden`s fellow Democrats who   currently control both chambers of Congress. America`s Central Bank, the Federal Reserve, says keeping prices in check is really its job not the president`s, but even the Fed`s been criticized   for its response to inflation. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  Has this booming pandemic economy run out of steam? Despite widespread job growth, a housing market frenzy, and a monster gain on the S&P 500 last year, many economists and CEOs now warn a recession   could be looming. As the Federal Reserve tries to tame high inflation by aggressively hiking interest rates, even the head of the Fed himself admits   central bankers probably should have acted sooner. JEROME POWELL, FEDERAL RESERVE CHAIRMAN:  Hindsight says we should have moved earlier. We`re going to use our tools and we`re going to get this   done. ROMANS:  Now, the challenge for the Fed is this: slowing the economy enough to get inflation under control, but not so much that it lurches into   recession. It`s the search for the so-called soft landing, but it won`t be easy. BILL DUDLEY, FORMER PRESIDENT AND CEO, FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK:  The chances of pulling off are very, very low because they have to push up   the unemployment rate. And in the past, when you`ve pushed up the unemployment rate, you`ve almost never been able to avoid a full-fledged   recession. ROMANS:  As recession fears grow, investors are dumping stocks and other risky assets, everything from the tech sector to retail stocks to Bitcoin   has plunged. Other factors like Russia`s invasion of Ukraine and COVID lockdowns in China, they aren`t helping the outlook. So, if the U.S. economy does slide into recession, what shape will it take? There`s an alphabet soup of possibilities. The V-shaped curve is the best-case scenario. It`s a sharp drop followed by an equally sharp recovery. Often that results from a one-time shock to the   economy, like we saw at the beginning of the pandemic. The U-shaped curve is a more drawn-out recession that takes a few years for GDP to fully recover. Now, that occurred in the mid-1970s during the oil   crisis, and a period of stagflation. Then there`s the dreaded L-shaped or hockey stick recession. That`s the worst case. That`s when a prolonged recession turns into a full-blown   depression. The Great Depression is a classic example. But some economists argue the financial crisis which started in 2007 and took nearly six years for a full recovery also met that L-shaped   definition. There`s also the W, when the economy bounces back quickly only to slide right back into recession. And, finally, there`s the K. Now that`s when different sectors of the economy rebound more quickly than others creating two separate recovery   lines. Some economists argue that`s what really happened after the start of the pandemic when low-income workers were the last to feel the economy come   back. That`s a lot of letters. But remember a recession is just a possibility at this point. Still, it`s when economists are treating very seriously. KEN ROGOFF, FORMER IMF CHIEF ECONOMIST:  I was talking to a bunch of professional forecasters the other day and one after another said they   can`t remember an environment where it was this uncertain. The lockdowns in China on top of an already fragile economy, war in Europe, galloping   inflation in the United States, you have the makings of a perfect storm global recession. It`s a risk. It`s not a certainty, but it`s a pretty   scary risk. ROMANS:  A risk that American families are increasingly beginning to fear. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Speedee was once a mascot of which restaurant chain? Checkers, Wendy`s, Steak `n Shake, or McDonald`s? In the 1950s, Speedee smiled on signs and bags for McDonald`s. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  In Russia, hundreds of foreign companies have cut back on operations, suspended them for the time being or quit doing business there   altogether since Russia`s military invaded Ukraine on February 24th. McDonald`s which had temporarily shut down almost 850 restaurants in Russia, just announced it`s leaving the country for good. The burger chain   says the humanitarian crisis caused by the war in Ukraine, plus an unpredictable operating environment contributed to its decision to sell its   Russia business. The jobs of more than 60,000 employees are now in question and McDonald`s could take a hit as its 155 locations in Russia and Ukraine   combined accounted for nine percent of its revenue last year. The decision closes the door on more than 30 years of McDonald`s operations in Russia. Here`s a very different sounding CNN report from when that door was opened. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORTER:  In a dismal season for the Soviet economy, a golden vision of hope on the horizon. Wednesday, after a dozen years of preparation, McDonald`s opens its largest restaurant in its 52nd country. Payment in rubles only. Unlike the new hard currency stores which have made life seem better for foreigners and privileged Russians but left the great majority resentfully   out in the cold. Inside, room for 700, with an international motif that combines Big Ben with Big Mac. For the novice, instructions on what to order with your cheeseburger, maybe a milkshake blurring in the name morozni (ph) cocktail, ice cream cocktail. Six hundred young Soviets have had a month of training in a way of working unfamiliar to the Soviet Union, fast and hard. The usual order of the day   here is service with a snarl, but McDonald`s has set out to change that with a zeal partly (ph) missionary. GEORGE COHON, FOUNDER AND SENIOR CHAIRMAN, MCDONALDS OF RUSSIA:  We`re certainly going to make money here. We`re not evangelists, so though. It`s   sort of neat to see the young crews and to see them smile and say, "thank you, please come back again". REPORTER:  And the Soviet kids in uniform sure look like converse. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  People, they are very nice. They`re all smiling. And as you know, in Moscow, not in every restaurant you can find smiling   people. REPORTER:  A meal here will cost two or three-hours wages for the average Soviet citizen, but he may think it`s worth it. Here`s the competition: a place that sells pelmeni, meat-filled dumplings, guaranteed to stay with you. Muscovites are used to queuing up for something to eat. The difference at McDonald`s is they promise there`ll be something left when you get to the   head of the line. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Two weeks ago, we told you about the longest glass bottomed bridge on or above the Earth. Today, we`re taking you across the world`s longest   suspension footbridge which stretches for a little under half a mile but over a deep mountain valley in the Czech Republic, about 312 feet over it.   It`s mainly supported by six cables. It took two years and almost $8.5 million to build. Pedestrians say it gives a great view, but it does shake. So, if you`re looking to shake a leg, shake, rattle, and roll, shake it up, shake your groove thing, shake, shake, shake your booty, and hopefully not   shake anything off the bridge, it could be kind of fun if you`re not shaking with fear or shaking at the knees after getting roped into a   suspenseful shaky bridge shake off. I`m Carl Azuz and that about spans all the bridge puns I got left. Massabesic Middle School, shout out to our viewers in Waterboro, Maine, for subscribing and leaving a comment at youtube.com/CNN10. END 

Date: 2022-05-18
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. I`m Carl Azuz for CNN 10. It could be two months or more before stores across America are fully restocked on baby formula. That`s according to Abbott Laboratories, one of   the biggest formula suppliers in America. Empty shelves and deeply worried parents have become common in the U.S. this year. The nationwide shortage actually dates back to 2020, according   to the "Reuters News Agency". Parents reportedly bought up extra supplies of formula as the COVID pandemic sank in. Since then, changes in availability, demand and supply   chain problems have affected the amount of formula for sale. But the problem got really bad starting in February. That`s when Abbott Nutrition recalled huge amounts of formula after four babies got sick   reportedly after being fed products that were made at an Abbott plant. The company says there`s no conclusive evidence that its formula caused the   illnesses, but the U.S. government said Abbott didn`t do enough to keep its products from getting contaminated when they were manufactured at the   plant. And since February, Abbott hasn`t been able to restart production there without the green light from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. This week, the company and the U.S. government said they`d reached an agreement that may lead to the plant`s reopening. That could happen in two   weeks. It might still be a month or more before the formula it makes there actually reaches store shelves. In the meantime, some other companies like   Nestle say they`re flying in some baby formula made outside the United States. The government has strict limits on imports of formula. That`s another part of the reason for the shortage. But the White House says it`s having   conversations with major manufacturers about how to get more of their products in stores. Some experts say supply chain problems whether they`re related to formula or other products are likely to continue throughout this year. And even if   issues with manufacturing shipping and shipping containers, trucking and warehousing all get resolved, there are still problems with some of the   roads and bridges that transporters use. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) LUKE HAYDEN, VICE PRESIDENT, M&M CARTAGE CO.:  Business is busy. Business is very busy. PETE MUNTEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Twenty-five-year-old Luke Hayden is in line to one day run the family trucking company but also   inherit a problem, a bridge that is putting the brakes on business. HAYDEN:  It`s very tight. It`s very accident prone. So effects would be huge for our industry. MUNTEAN:  Cincinnati`s Brent Spence Bridge carries times the trucks and twice the cars that it was designed to handle when it opened 60 years ago. JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  That bridge, if you really want to go to Kentucky, is going to get better. MUNTEAN:  President Biden says help will come from the bipartisan infrastructure law. But six months after it was signed, work here has not   started. MARK POLICINSKI, OHIO-KENTUCKY-INDIANA REGIONAL COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENTS:  It is the poster child what needs to be done in infrastructure in this nation. MUNTEAN:  Cincinnati officials went $2 billion federal dollars to build a new neighboring bridge. They hope to break ground next year. POLICINSKI:  It`s going to be dramatic difference. It will solve a huge part of all the congestion in this region. MUNTEAN:  The infrastructure law sets aside $40 billion to help ailing bridges. The administration points to work that has already started, on   4,300 other infrastructure projects. But the White House stresses, getting larger projects moving takes time, even though the clock is ticking for   some 46,000 bridges in the U.S., rated as structurally deficient, that drivers cross each day. ANDY HERRMANN, AMERICAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS:  They have to be patient. It`s -- you know, there`s engineering involved. There`s design   involved that has to be done to make sure we do these jobs right. MUNTEAN:  When visiting Cincinnati earlier this month, President Biden became the third president to say the Brent Spence Bridge must be fixed. BARACK OBAMA, FORMER PRESIDENT:  It`s in such poor condition that it`s been labeled functionally obsolete. DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT:  Replacing the Brent Spence Bridge in Cincinnati. Do you like that? Which is critical to the region. MUNTEAN:  Regional officials insist this time, there is a real sense of optimism. For Luke Hayden, he says the can should not get kicked to another generation of the family business. HAYDEN:  It is an exercise in patience. You know, things don`t happen overnight. You know, you can`t build a bridge in a day. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these birds has the widest wingspan? Andean condor, California condor, Himalayan vulture or Trumpeter swan? On top of the perch here is the Andean condor, whose wingspan is greater than 10 feet. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Several countries along South America`s Andes mountain chain are involved in conserving Andean condors. They`re not an endangered species   but their numbers are believed to be decreasing. Part of the reason: as vultures, these birds are scavengers. They eat other animals that have died and if those animals have been poisoned, that poison   also becomes a threat to the condors. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORTER:  High on a hilltop in the Andes, a moment of transcendence is about to take place. NORBERTO LUIS JACOME, PRESIDENT, ARGENTINE BIOANDEAN FOUNDATION (through translator):  When the condor takes flight, all of us feel like we`d rise   with him. REPORTER:  This Andean condor has been bred in captivity and never flown before. Now, it`s doing it with an audience to celebrate its release into   the wild. JACOME:  The connection with an iconic species for thousands of years has inspired man to look up at the sky and connect with the sacred. REPORTER:  It`s the life`s work of Argentinian biologist Norberto Luis Jacome. JACOME:  Our mission is to conserve the Andean condor and through the condor to reconnect people with nature. REPORTER:  Endemic to South America, numbers of these soaring birds are plummeting across the continent. Sometimes mistaken for predators, they   face threats from human activities like hunting poisoning from toxic baits. JACOME:  Many condors come down to eat dead animals to fulfill their role of scavenger. They ingest lead bullets and lead kills them. REPORTER:  With a wingspan of up to feet these giant birds are slow to reproduce. So Jacome and his team developed a captive breeding program at   the Buenos Aires Eco Park. They take one egg from a breeding pair which prompts the condors to produce a second egg shortly after, ensuring all the   eggs aren`t in one basket. JACOME:  So the second egg is raised by the couple. We can get two chicks for each couple per year, when in reality, condors would have one offspring   every three years. REPORTER:  After two months of careful monitoring, a tiny miracle. If needed, the chicks receive a helping hand to break free. Caring for newborn chicks while ensuring they don`t become attached to humans requires thinking outside the box. JACOME:  All the contact that the fledgling has here will be through latex puppets that represent its parents. At that moment, you are the father. You   are the mother. You are responsible for that life. REPORTER:  Jacome says the program has raised chicks and rescued and released hundreds of condors throughout South America. But an increase in   poisoning has killed 150 condors in just the past two years. JACOME:  It means that a whole effort, a lifetime of 30 years is not enough if we do not change that relationship we have with the environment. REPORTER:  Here, Jacome and his team celebrates the release of the condors with the Mapuches and Tehuelches communities, who have long had reverence   for this bird. As part of a traditional ceremony, the event is transformed from the scientific to the spirituals. JACOME:  It opens hearts. It opens people`s minds. And people quickly in a practical way understand why we should take care of Mother Nature. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Nothing grows on the moon but could something grow in lunar soil. That`s what scientists at the University of Florida recently tried to do in   a study funded by NASA. The soil was taken from the moon`s surface during the Apollo missions and the good news is a plant related to mustard greens   did sprout within days. The bad news it had stunted leaves and roots a reddish color and was generally less healthy than plants grown in earthly soil. Does it seed the need for a future way to feed the astronaut to heed to space sod to see or will it fail to take root if that root is tried upon a   rocket lunch instead of fruit that`s freeze dried, they`ll have to decide if they can it or they ban it, if the lunar salad bar is lower than   scientists planet. Maybe that got off the ground, maybe it crashed and burned. Either way, we`re happy you`re watching. Shout-out goes to Juniper Hills High School today. Our viewers in Nampa, Idaho. I`m Carl Azuz. END     

Date: 2022-05-19
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, it`s good to see you. Thanks for making us part of your Thursday. I`m Carl Azuz. This is CNN 10. Northern Europe is where we`re taking you first today. Finland and Sweden have officially applied to become part of the North Atlantic Treaty   Organization. Since the NATO alliance was established in 1949, Sweden and Finland have stayed neutral. They haven`t joined many other nearby nations   in applying for NATO membership which now includes 30 countries in Europe and North America. So, what changed? Russia invaded Ukraine. And Finland, which shares a border with Russia and Sweden which is right next to Finland became   concerned about their own security. So, they decided to stop being neutral and try to join the NATO alliance which is led by the United States. A Swedish government official said now is the time when the democracies of Europe and North America have to stand together against Russia`s, quote,   naked aggression against Ukraine. When Finland started planning to do this, Russia threatened the neighboring country saying its application would be a mistake and that Russia would   retaliate. But experts say it looks like Russia`s backed down on that threat. What`s ironic about all of this is that Russia said it invaded Ukraine in part to prevent countries from joining NATO. Russian President Vladimir   Putin sees the alliance as a threat. It was originally formed as a guard against the Soviet Union, though it`s been more focused on terrorism and   peacekeeping in recent decades. Ukraine is not a NATO member, though it had expressed interest in the past about joining. But now, Finland and Sweden are moving toward NATO   membership. And if they`re approved, they could officially become part of the alliance in a matter of months. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NINA DOS SANTOS, CNN EUROPE EDITOR:  After a busy day of marathon parliamentary debates in Helsinki, followed by a vote overwhelmingly in   favor of joining NATO and here in Stockholm in Sweden, a visit -- a state visit by the president of Finland to Sweden. Finally, these two Nordic   nations decided that they were going to sign their letters of intent to apply to join NATO that turns their back on generations worth of much   cherished neutrality and military non-alignment. However, in order to join the bloc, they`ll have to get a unanimous consensus from all 30 NATO members. Most NATO members are very enthusiastic   about Sweden and Finland joining the bloc. They spend a lot on their military, have very well-trained armies, air forces and navies, and would   be welcome into the bloc to shore up the security alliance in this part of northern Europe. There is one member though that is holding out for some concessions, at least according to its president Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and that is Turkey.   And Russia appears to have backed down from earlier assertions that it might respond militarily or politically while these two countries to apply   to join NATO. Instead, they`ve said according to Russia`s foreign minister that it makes no difference. The president of Russia though, Vladimir Putin, has warned that if there are military installations on this territory of Sweden or Finland, that   would certainly stoke a Russian response. Well, now that the paperwork and letters of intent have been signed, they`re heading over to Brussels to be submitted to the secretary general   of NATO, Jen Stoltenberg, on Wednesday then in about a month and a half`s time there`ll be a big NATO summit taking place in Madrid. But in the   meantime, the leaders of these two countries have received an expression of support from the highest echelons of NATO, the most powerful member which   is the United States, with an invitation by the U.S. president to visit Washington, D.C. and the White House on Thursday. Nina Dos Santos, CNN, in Stockholm, Sweden. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: In the 1950s and 1960s, America`s Project Blue Book studied what? Soviet espionage, gyres, automotive trends or UFOs? UFO studies were shut down in 1969 partly because they found no aliens or threats to U.S. national security. For the first time in more than 50 years, the U.S. Congress has held a hearing on UFOs. Technically, what was discussed on Tuesday were   unidentified aerial phenomena. And before we get too excited, a U.S. military report last year said it found no evidence of aliens. So we`re   talking about objects in the sky that are hard to identify. The government`s taking this more seriously than it did back in the 1960s, though, in part because American pilots and service members have reported   400 sightings of unidentified aerial phenomena, and some lawmakers worry they could be a threat to U.S. national security. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORTER:  The deputy director of naval intelligence, Scott Bray, did confirm the authenticity of two videos that have been floating around the   Internet for quite some time. It shows some close encounters between Navy pilots and what the Pentagon describes as UAPs or unidentified aerial   phenomena. Here`s one of those videos. SCOTT BRAY, DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE:  What you see here is aircraft that is operating in a in a U.S. navy training range that has   observed a spherical object. In that area and as they fly by it, they take a video. REP. ADAM SCHIFF (D-CA):  And is this one of the phenomena that we can`t explain? BRAY:  I do not have an explanation for what this specific object is. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  While there`s not an explanation, officials say they haven`t found anything extraterrestrial UFOs have often turned out to be weather balloons   or new man-made technology. But pilots are now being encouraged to report anything suspicious. Next, researchers at an Austrian university have built a new kind of virtual reality attachment, one that aims to restrict breathing. It looks   like a large complex kind of snorkel. We don`t know how much it`ll cost or when people will be able to buy it. Could this be dangerous? Well, it reportedly has a valve that automatically opens letting you breathe normally if the battery gets low. Of course, there are limits to this hardware. It could make the VR experience worse for people who think it`s uncomfortable to begin with.   What could it be used for? (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SUBTITLE:  This virtual reality mask can control users` breath flow to make the experience more realistic. Researcher Markus Tatzgern and his colleagues from Salzburg University of Applied Sciences developed the mask. MARKUS TATZGERN, RESEARCHER, SALZBURG UNIVERSITY OF APPLIED SCIENCES:  They can use reading as another input modality for the virtual reality   experience and then can naturally interact with the environment. SUBTITLE:  Breaths blown into the mask can be translated into forces on virtual objects in real-time. TATZGERN:  They can blow out birthday candles. They can blow up balloons. So, this improves the virtual reality experience. SUBTITLE:  The mask can also manipulate breathing resistance to simulate real world situations like navigating fire. TATZGERN:  If users walk through a scene where there`s smoke or heat, then the breathing gets harder as you would expect, so we manipulate the   resistance a little bit more so that they feel an effect on their virtual avatar which on the other hand then increases embodiment so they feel more   connected to this virtual character. SUBTITLE:  The goal of this research is to improve the multisensory user experience in virtual reality. TATZGERN:  We are good at addressing vision. We are good at addressing audio and hearing. But what`s missing to improve the experience which is   not so easy to realize is haptic feedback. Everything you touch in virtual reality is kind of it doesn`t have a real -- real object behind it. So it`s   like you touch the air you interact with air basically. And the more sensory input you provide for users, the better the experience. SUBTITLE:  Though this is still in the research stage, Tatzgern and his team hope to use this technology in more scenarios in the future. TATZGERN:  There`s a lot of potential of virtual reality in training simulations because they get more immersive. You can experience things in a   safe environment, in a training simulation and also make mistakes and learn from those mistakes. There can be fires that you perceive in virtual   reality but they are not really a danger to yourself. And, of course, there are applications in psychotherapy and therapy in general, where you can   create more immersive scenarios that are maybe more enjoyable for users so that they stick to their training regimens. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Paper airplane contests have come a long way from my middle school gym. Take for example the Red Bull Paper Wings World Final which was held   in an Austrian airplane hangar last weekend. One hundred seventy-one students from 57 countries made it here. Finalists could only use a   standardized piece of paper and only fold it, no cutting, tearing, stapling, gluing or funny business. The winner for longest distance flew 200 feet. The winner for longest air time flew almost 15 seconds. And the winner for aerobatics delivered an   engaging artistic performance and also proposed to his girlfriend with a paper airplane. Of course, paper is supposed to be for the first anniversary but that doesn`t mean they should fold. When a craft project landed them in Europe   and love was on the wing, maybe it was time to increase their commitment, smooth out the edges, get a good grip and take flight to keep their hearts   aloft. I`m Carl Azuz. Montford North Star Academy gets today`s shout-out. Thanks to our viewers in Asheville, North Carolina, for subscribing and commenting on our YouTube   Channel. Tomorrow is Friday. You`re only a day away. END     

Date: 2022-05-20
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Fridays are awesome I had to make that a good one because I`ll only be able to say it on air one more time this season.   I`m Carl Azuz. Welcome to the show. The coronavirus pandemic has officially found its way to North Korea. We say officially because this is a secretive, tightly controlled communist   country and while it`s probably had COVID cases before, this month marked the first time an outbreak was reported by North Korean media which are   controlled by the government. The nation`s borders have been closed since January of 2020, but unusual cargo flights have been observed this week,   traveling between North Korea and China. That country is considered North Korea`s closest ally and while observers don`t know exactly what`s on these flights, China has promised to help   North Korea with its COVID outbreak. So, the planes are thought to be carrying some kind of aid to the Korean peninsula. Since last week, North Korea has reported almost 2 million cases of what it calls fever. Government media say it`s a major national emergency the   silver lining is that the main variant of COVID that`s spreading right now is the omicron strain. It`s less severe than previous versions of the   disease but it spreads very easily. Vaccines do not prevent people from catching and spreading COVID, according to U.S. government health officials   but they say the shots can help prevent serious illness and hospitalizations from the disease. The thing is North Korea is so closed off and impoverished that the impact of COVID could be worse there than it is in other countries. Still, the   country continues to cause controversy by test-firing missiles into the ocean, a way of asserting its military power and threatening its rivals. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  This is likely the first time we`ve seen North Korean leader Kim Jong-un wear a mask in public since   the pandemic began, ordering all cities to lock down after admitting the first COVID-19 case in Pyongyang. MASON RICHEY, HANKUK UNIVERSITY:  We think there have probably been cases before, but they haven`t admitted them. And the fact that they`ve admitted   now would indicate that there`s really no hiding it. HANCOCKS:  The number of cases of Omicron variant are unknown, but North Korea is only one of two countries in the world believed to have delivered   zero COVID-19 vaccinations. BRIAN WAHL, JOHNS HOPKINS BLOOMBERG SCHOOL:  Even in other settings where there`s very low immunization coverage, presumably, there would be higher   levels of prior exposure. So, this is really unique situation that we have in North Korea right now. HANCOCKS:  COVAX, the global vaccine sharing hub, has moved to a needs- based vaccine allocation, saying it`s currently not committed any to North Korea. Pyongyang last year has believed to have rejected vaccines from China, according to the U.N. China now says it`s ready to provide full support. The level of testing is low. Up until March 31st, just 64,000 people have been tested out of a population of over 25 million since the pandemic   began. And health infrastructure in the country is fragile, at best. Even developed health systems around the world have struggled under omicron   outbreaks. WAHL:  I would imagine that in North Korea, the high levels of malnutrition maybe an additional risk factor for severe disease, and that associated   with COVID-19 right now. HANCOCKS:  It is a population under lockdown in a country not set up for delivery of food and survival items. Extended isolation could have a   serious impact on future food supply already at a crisis in the country. RICHEY:  It can affect agriculture and harvest. It can affect, obviously, interior commerce within the country, the ability of the public food   distribution system, which is already not working very well, to function. HANCOCKS (on camera):  As many experts wondered whether an omicron outbreak would halt its recent run-on missile and weapons tests, Pyongyang answered   Thursday evening with another launch. Paula Hancocks, CNN, Seoul. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these events was held for the first time in 1991? Summer Olympics in Barcelona, FIFA Women`s World Cup, Consumer Electronics Show, or MLB game at Tropicana Field? The FIFA women`s world cup has been held every four years since 1991. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  For the first time, a soccer federation will split its pay and prize money evenly between its men`s and women`s national teams. That federation   is U.S. Soccer. After years of legal battles with female soccer players, the organization announced this week that it would pay men and women the   same amount when they compete on U.S. national soccer teams, like the ones that play in the World Cup. This agreement does not apply to all professional soccer players in America. Men`s salaries across the sport still far exceed those of women.   But for players on the U.S. national teams, the agreement that lasts through 2028 aims to give men and women equal pay and equal benefits. FIFA, the international soccer association, will still give millions more in prize money to World Cup men`s teams than it will to World Cup women`s   teams. But U.S. soccer will now evenly split that money between American men and women. On one hand, this means members of the U.S. men`s national   team may have to give up some of their pay so that members of the women`s national team are compensated the same. On the other, the U.S. women`s team   has been far more successful in the World Cup. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  It`s a game changing deal. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I am just so incredibly proud of what we`ve achieved. FISHER:  In a new contract, U.S. soccer women and men`s player associations agreeing to equal pay for all players. Both men and women will now get   around $450,000 a year. Commercial and event revenue will be divvied up. The team`s also shaking hands on sharing World Cup prize money, a first of   any soccer organization in the world. That part of today`s agreement especially notable -- as the women`s team clinched the last two World Cups, four overall. The men haven`t won yet.   The women`s 2015 win netted less than $2 million, while the men made more than $5 million, losing in the round of 16 the year before. That propelled a movement for equal pay. Today`s deal is the culmination of that battle between the U.S. Soccer Federation and prominent members of the   U.S. women`s team who filed a federal wage complaint in 2016, and a gender discrimination lawsuit in 2019. Players settled the suit earlier this year   for $24 million dollars. This comes at a pivotal time as the men head to Qatar later this year for the 2022 World Cup. Brynn Gingras, CNN New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  A lot of times when you envision a sinkhole, you probably picture something like this, a crater that opens up in a road or parking lot and   needs to be filled. Not far from a village in China, something a little more expansive was recently discovered but it was not recently formed. You   are looking at a giant sinkhole that`s roughly 650 feet deep and it`s old. How old is it? Well, it`s said to have an ancient forest growing in the bottom, so it`s been sunken long enough for that. The trees stretch 130   feet high; the plants are up to a person`s shoulders. Experts say it`s possible that new species will be discovered here. This is one of 30 sinkholes that have been found in this part of southern China. Giant landforms like it are relatively common in that country, as   well as Mexico and Papua New Guinea. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Among the many treasures people have found at the beach, dentures are probably the last thing a vacationer in Gulf Shores, Alabama, expected   to see. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  That`s actually scared me. I was like -- yeah, I said, where`s the rest of this guy`s teeth? (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Thankfully, the rest of them were in his head. But an unexpected wave had literally knocked another man`s teeth out and it wasn`t until a   few days later that a swimmer looked down and saw them smiling back up at him in the water. The owner`s name was printed on the dentures, so with   little social media legwork, the swimmer located and returned the teeth but not before taking them on a bit of a road trip. A bit of a road trip. Truth be told that story`s gold. It`s teething with excitement. What biter way to make a bridge between two strangers than to   have one give a Denton to another`s root problem. It`s a crowning achievement. You can see why we`re enameled with it and happy to use it to fill our show. Warwick Veterans Middle School has been chomping at the bit for a shout- out. Great to see you our viewers in Warwick, Rhode Island. We have one week left to go in our spring broadcasting season. I`m Carl Azuz for CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-05-23
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. I`m Carl Azuz for CNN 10. This is our last week on the air in our spring broadcasting season. So after this Friday,   we`ll be working behind the scenes until the daily show resumes in August. First up, more American assistance is on the way to the nation of Ukraine. The two countries are not officially allies through the North Atlantic   Treaty Organization. Ukraine`s not a member of NATO. But the U.S. has been a leading supporter of Ukraine as it fights the invasion launched by Russia   in February. While on a trip to Asia, U.S. President Joe Biden signed a bill to provide $40 billion in new assistance to Ukraine. It includes military equipment   and humanitarian aid for the European country. This is in addition to the $13.6 billion that Congress approved for Ukraine in March. These packages   have had bipartisan backing from Democrats and many Republicans on Capitol Hill. The president says they`re a sign of strong support for Ukraine as it defends itself from Russia but some Republicans say the U.S. is spending   too much to help Ukraine that it should be selling the nation weapons instead and that European countries should be spending more to support   Ukraine. Meanwhile, a product from Europe is arriving to help out with a problem in the United States. That problem is a widespread shortage of baby formula.   One of America`s largest manufacturing plants was shut down in February over safety concerns and it won`t be able to reopen for at least another   week.  Seventy thousand pounds of formula landed in America from Switzerland yesterday, and President Biden says his administration`s working around the   clock to get it to people in need. But critics say that administration waited too long and moved too slowly in taking action. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ELIZABETH COHEN, CNN SENIOR MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT:  Here at Ramstein Air Force Base, we`ve been watching service members putting together these   pallets. You can see them all throughout here. It`s 1.5 million bottles, each bottle, 8 ounces. One-point-five million bottles of baby formula being   sent by a European company to the United States. The Department of Defense is doing the shipping. Let`s take a look at what they`re sending. If you look at this, you can see it says Nestle. That`s a Swiss company. Alfamino, that`s a formula that`s   hypoallergenic.  That`s because a lot of the children in the United States, their parents who are having trouble finding formula often those children have particular   medical conditions or they have allergies and they`re looking for a particular kind of formula like a hypoallergenic formula. So it`s --   there`s a lot of hope that this could help families in the U.S. Now, we want to be clear-eyed about this as great as it is to have these 1.5 million bottles, this will not solve the infant formula shortage. There   are other steps that are being taken too, but even all put together this will not solve anything. Hopefully, it will alleviate it to some extent,   but as far as getting those shelves full again, that could take many, many, many weeks. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  In the United States, fuel is at its highest price ever. The AAA Automobile Association says the latest record for a gallon of gasoline was   set on Sunday at more than $4.59 per gallon on average. Diesel`s record was set last Wednesday at over $5.57 per gallon.  Here`s how that impacts inflation, the rising prices for goods. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DENTON CINQUEGRANA, CHIEF OIL ANALYST, OPIS:  It could be gasoline, it could be diesel, it could be jet fuel. So, but that fuel is eventually   going to be distributed. Right now, those tank levels are pretty low, though.  YURKEVICH:  Is that concerning for you?  CINQUEGRANA:  Absolutely.  YURKEVICH (voice-over):  These oil tanks in New York harbor sit at alarmingly low levels not seen in 30 years, as demand outpaces supply.  CINQUEGRANA:  Over there.  YURKEVICH:  This is one of seven critical fuel points across the country, supplying our nation`s gas stations, planes, trucks and homes, critical to   fueling the U.S. supply chain.  CINQUEGRANA:  And really high diesel prices get passed on to the consumer. Whether that`s for construction, whether that`s for delivering groceries to   the grocery store where you buy whatever it is you need.  YURKEVICH:  U.S. diesel prices are already at record highs, with particular pain here in the Northeast. And now with tankers like these exporting much   needed diesel to Europe, instead of supplying the U.S., prices are spiking higher. But there are also fewer U.S. diesel refineries after years of   closures to make up that difference in supply.  CINQUEGRANA:  Right now, there`s just a global shortage of diesel. It`s really tight.  YURKEVICH:  Katie Child, owner of Berkshire Energy Depot in New Haven, Connecticut, is responsible for setting the price of diesel here.  How does it feel to have to make the price higher every day?  KATIE CHILD, OWNER, BERKSHIRE ENERGY DEPOT:  You can see the pain in their face when they come in and see the price and you just -- you apologize and   say I`m sorry. There`s nothing -- there`s nothing I can do about it.  YURKEVICH:  She`s a small business owner who services other small businesses and says the record prices have lost her customers. CHILD:  When prices are high, people shop around more. Well if you know you`ll save, you know, 10 cents down the road, you`re going to go there. YURKEVICH:  Hudson Square Pharmacy, back in New York, is also facing the same problem. Everything from cereal to toilet paper is more expensive. AL SOLMAN, OWNER, HUDSON SQUARE PHARMACY:  We do pay a gas surcharge too. Now that gas has gone up a lot, we notice on our bills $2, $3, $5 surcharge   for gasoline. YURKEVICH:  That extra charge has to be recouped from somewhere. SOLMAN:  Once the prices become a little too much, then we just have to pass it on to the consumer. YURKEVICH:  But the consumer holds some power to turn the tide of high prices. A relentless buying and spending inflicted on a brittle supply   chain are contributing to the high price of diesel. CINQUEGRANA:  And at some point the consumer`s going to say, all right, enough`s enough. I got to -- I got to slow down because this is taking too   much of a disposable income. If we do have a pullback in economic activity, that might help, but kind of level off supplies, but for the time being,   things are really tightening. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these animals symbolizes a lasting decline in the stock market? Bull, turtle, bear, or pig? A bear market can describe a condition when stock prices drop for a sustained amount of time. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  So far, this year has not been a good one for the U.S. stock market. Continued inflation, rising interest rates, global instability worries   about a possible recession which is an economic downturn, all of these have been factors in why major indexes like the Dow Jones have taken a   significant hit in 2022. Another index you hear a lot about is the S&P 500 or the Standard and Poor`s 500. It tracks the stocks of large 500 American companies and last   Friday, the S&P 500 temporarily sank into the territory of a bear market. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  So we talk about being in a bear market. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  People were panicking. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The market is not functioning properly. CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  What exactly is a bear market? It`s when stocks drop 20 percent from a recent high. When we talk about the overall stock market, we usually look at a broad index like the S&P 500.   But individual stocks or commodities can also fall into a bear market if they decline 20 percent. A bear market is different from a correction. That`s a 10 percent decline. So if the S&P 500 falls into a bear market, it`s already had a correction   and then fallen another 10 percent. Since World War II, there have been 14 bear markets for the S&P 500.  A bear market doesn`t always signal a severe economic downturn in the last 40 years, four bear markets have occurred without a recession. But the   drops that coincide with recessions tend to be worse.  The good news is bear markets don`t tend to last as long as bull markets. The average lasted 339 days and declined nearly 32 percent. But history   shows it takes about a year for stocks to fully bounce back. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  The S&P 500 did bounce back a bit on Friday. After temporarily meeting that bear market definition, the index ended the day at 19 percent   below its high in January so just shy of bear market territory. But the recent drop is its biggest since March of 2020 when the COVID pandemic was   sinking in.  And the Nasdaq, a different index, is already in a bear market. Its stocks are down 30 percent from their recent high last fall. So all this will be   closely watched. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  After a three-year hiatus, the tram driver championship returned to Europe over the weekend and what a championship it was.  One event involved tram pool, bump the queue and try to get the ball to roll to the middle.  Another looks like a tram version of bowling though I`m not sure the whole train was supposed to smack the pins.  There`s the no hands did she program in enough braking power to stop in time event. She did not. But if you want to see what a perfect tram stop looks like -- wow is right. Five hundred points for this masterful maneuver. Sometimes there was too   much speed, sometimes there wasn`t enough. But if your favorite kind of transport is tram sport and you`re not afraid of the tramifications of trampling the comptration, train your eyes on an   event that tracks the best conductors as they toe the line with the trolley and cry of keeping it real. Old Orchard Junior High School is keeping it real. Shout-out to our viewers in Skokie, Illinois. And thank you for your requests on our YouTube   channel. I`m Carl Azuz. END     

Date: 2022-05-24
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. I`m Carl Azuz. You are minutes away from being up to speed on worldwide events,. including the recent eruption of a   famous European volcano. But we`re starting in the Japanese capital of Tokyo. U.S. President Joe Biden is there. It`s his first trip to Asia as president and during a news   conference Monday, the American leader made a comment that got a lot of international attention and analysis. It concerned the island of Taiwan. For decades, its government which sees itself as an independent democracy has been at odds with the government of   China, which sees Taiwan as part of the communist mainland. So, the two sides have a dispute. They`re not at war but China has been holding   military drills near the island in recent months. What does this have to do with President Biden? Well, the United States is an ally of Taiwan and they don`t want China to forcibly try to take control   of the island. But if China did, what would the U.S. do? Would it stand by or would it get involved in a war with China to protect Taiwan? Analysts say American leaders have intentionally avoided answering this question because they want to keep things as they are with China and Taiwan   coexisting. The U.S. doesn`t want China to invade Taiwan. It doesn`t want Taiwan to push for independence from China. When asked about this yesterday though, President Biden did answer directly. (BEGN VIDEO CLIP) REPORTER:  Are you willing to get involved militarily to defend Taiwan if it comes to that? JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  Yes. REPORTER:  You are? BIDEN:  That`s the commitment we made. We agree with the One China Policy. We signed on to it, and all the attendant agreements made from there. But   the idea that that it could be taken by force -- just taken by force is just not -- it`s just not appropriate. It`ll dislocate the entire region. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  So, is U.S. policy changing? Did the president promise that the American military would fight for Taiwan if China were to invade or did he   make a mistake in what he said? His administration in Washington dc quickly walked back his comments saying America`s policy hasn`t changed, that the   U.S. is committed to peace and stability in the Asian region. But that America would continue to provide Taiwan weapons to defend itself. Taiwan said it welcomed President Biden`s, quote, rock-solid commitment to the island, but China said it firmly opposed the American leader`s comments   and that it wouldn`t allow another country to interfere with China`s, quote, internal affairs. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SUBTITLE:  Taiwan & China: One China. MATT RIVERS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  This island of 23 million people is a vibrant democracy and a U.S. ally that sits just across the sea from the   world`s largest one-party state. I`m Matt Rivers in Taiwan, officially known as the Republic of China. STEVEN JIANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  And I`m Steven Jiang in Beijing, the capital of what`s officially known as the People`s Republic of China. It`s been called that since 1949 when the communists here won a civil war, forcing the previous government to flee to the island of Taiwan. RIVERS:  Both sides set up their own governments, each claiming to be the only legitimate rulers of the entire Chinese territory. Decades of   hostility ensued. There was no travel, no trade, or communications between two and the threat of military action was a constant presence. But those   tensions begin to ease in 1990s, that`s when Beijing and Taipei came to an agreement on the so-called "One China Policy". JIANG:  Both sides acknowledged despite the existence of two governments, there was only one nation of China, and that paved the way for economic and   cultural cooperation. Businesses in Taiwan had invested billions of dollars here on the mainland, home to 1.3 billion people and the world`s second   largest economy. And millions of mainland tourists have flocked to Taiwan after direct flights resumed. China insists Taiwan as a renegade province that must be reunited with the mainland by force if necessary. Both the governments say that`s all the   more reason to strengthen communication and build mutual trust. RIVERS: But whether that trust can be built in Taiwan remains to be seen. Many people here are wary of the growing influence of their massive   neighbor just across the straits, fearful that their unique way of life cultivated over the last six decades may be under threat. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: What country has the largest population in Africa? Egypt, Nigeria, South Africa, or Kenya? With more than 216 million people, Nigeria has Africa`s largest population. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  And Nigeria is in a region of Africa where a virus known as monkeypox is endemic, meaning outbreaks are more common there. What`s   unusual is that dozens of recent cases have been reported in countries where monkeypox isn`t common -- Australia, Canada, Israel the United   States, and at least 11 nations in Europe. When we produced this show, health authorities were tracking around a hundred cases in these countries   and no deaths had been reported. Monkeypox does not spread as easily as COVID-19. Officials say people have to come in close contact with one another in order to catch it. Symptoms   are said to be like the flu at first, fever, chills, aches, fatigue, swollen lymph nodes and a rash on the face and body can follow and that   usually goes away after a couple weeks. Unlike COVID, a couple years ago, monkeypox is not a new virus. There are treatments that can be used for diseases like it, including an antiviral   drug. So while it`s uncommon for it to spread outside of West and Central Africa, officials say it isn`t something that should cause panic. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JACQUELINE HOWARD, CNN HEALTH REPORTER:  So, here`s what we know so far. Monkeypox cases have been confirmed in more than a dozen countries around   the world. These are countries where the virus is not endemic. So, it is unusual to see this level of cases in these regions. And we should see a list here of those countries. It does include, as you see, the   United States. And just this morning, President Joe Biden spoke from Tokyo about how this is a virus that we know well. It doesn`t spread as easily as COVID-19.   People should not panic but we should be aware. Have a listen. BIDEN:  We`ve had this monkeypox with the larger numbers in the past, number one. Number two, we have vaccines to care for it -- to take care of   it. Number three, there is, thus far, there doesn`t seem to be a need for any kind of extra, extra effort beyond what`s going on. And so, I just   don`t think it rises the level of the kind of concern that existed with COVID-19 or -- and the smallpox vaccine works for it. So -- but I think   people should be careful. HOWARD:  And the CDC here in the U.S. and the World Health Organization have both said they are investigating these cases and will release more   information as they learn more. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  We`re soaring across the Atlantic now to the Italian island of Sicily where Mount Etna has been doing what Mount Etna does. People on and   around the island can tell you this is a pretty common sight. Etna is the tallest active volcano in Europe. It typically erupts several times a year   and in addition to the plumes of ash billowing from its crater, cameras recently recorded some amazingly vivid pictures of lava flowing downhill at   night. Even though the city of Catania is only about 15 miles south of the mountain, its eruptions don`t usually cause a lot of damage there, and   experts say people who live nearby aren`t directly threatened by the volcano. They do however get a serious light show when they can see sights   like this in the distance. And as one of our long-time viewers at Sigonella Middle High School tells us, you`ve got to get your food off the grill when you hear Etna rumbling,   or your dinner could soon be coated with ash. According to Encyclopedia Britannica, the mountain`s height actually changes over time when ash is deposited from eruptions it gets taller when   the edge of its crater collapses it sinks back down. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  For 10 out of 10, the most expensive car ever sold. What brand would you expect? It`s not Rolls Royce Ferrari, Lamborghini, or Bugatti. It`s not   Duesenberg if you`re old school. It`s Mercedes. This one. A 1955 Gullwing Mercedes-Benz 300 SLR. It`s one of only two ever made, part of the reason why it fetched $143 million at an   auction early this month. The company says it`ll use the money to establish a new scholarship fund. Things the buyer would never say: it`s for rent, my other car was Jeeper. Aren`t its wings adorable? It`s all I could a Ford. Now that I bought it,   I`m Audi. Hey, let`s race for pink slips. And finally, can you believe Mercedes gas prices? I`m Carl Azuz. And that`s our show for today. I want to give a shout-out to Morgan Middle School. Our viewers watching in Ellensburg, Washington. We   have three shows left to go in our spring season. END     

Date: 2022-05-25
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. I`m Carl Azuz, for CNN 10. We had some tragic news coming out of the U.S. state of Texas as we produced today`s show. There was a shooting Tuesday in the city of Uvalde.   It happened at an elementary school. Officials say at least students and two adults were killed and that the suspected shooter is also dead. Several others were treated at a local   hospital. We didn`t know how many when we produced this show. Texas Governor Greg Abbott called on people to show unwavering support for those who were suffering and U.S. President Joe Biden was scheduled to   address the nation last night. CNN.com will have updated information on all of this. Next, we`re taking you to two island countries on opposite sides of the northern hemisphere. Tens of thousands of Cubans are leaving their nation.   It`s currently dealing with runaway inflation, prices around 70 percent higher at the end of last year than they were the year before. And the   communist country is seeing its worst shortages of food and medicine in decades. The COVID pandemic hurt Cuba`s tourism industry. The country`s getting less oil from its ally Venezuela, which is having trouble producing enough oil   for itself, and for years, the U.S. has imposed sanctions, economic penalties on Cuba to pressure its government to make changes. As Cubans protested last year over shortages power outages and a lack of freedoms, their government blamed the United States for trying to overturn   Cuba`s communist rule. But critics of Cuba`s leaders say they try to take advantage of their country`s economic problems and exodus of migrants to pressure the U.S.   government. American officials say the number of Cubans trying to enter the U.S. is increasing exponentially. Meanwhile the island nation of Sri Lanka is also dealing with shortages of fuel and food. The inflation rate in this presidential republic is more   than 33 percent higher than it was last year at this time. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VEDIKA SUD, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  If you drive through Sri Lanka`s capital Colombo, you`ll spot hundreds of people standing in multiple queues hoping   to take home fuel and gas from collection points. For months, there`s been an acute shortage of essential commodities. In a new low for the country,   Sri Lanka defaulted on its debts Thursday. We speak to people in Colombo about the impact the country`s worst economic crisis has had on their lives. Thirty-six-year-old Thuban (ph), an auto rickshaw driver, has spent two nights at this gas station in central Colombo. It`s been an endless way to   refuel his three-wheeler. Petrol pumps are all but dry across the city. About five kilometers or three miles away from Thuban`s home, Sagarika Samanthi (ph) can barely sit in this 30-inch-wide balcony where she cooks   the day`s meals. She uses coconut husk paper and kerosene to get the firewood stove started. FATHIMA HAMEED, COLOMBO RESIDENT (through translator):  Since the 30th of April, there`s been no cooking gas. We`re now using a firewood stove. SUD:  Earlier,Sagarika would cook three meals a day on a gas stove. It`s now down to one. Weeks of protests forced all the Rajapaksas except the president to step down from senior government posts. On Monday, Sri Lanka`s new prime   minister Wickremesinghe warned that things will only get worse before getting any better. Four days later, and for the first time in its history,   the country defaulted on its debt. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: What U.S. state traditionally holds the first primary or caucus in a presidential election year? New Hampshire, Iowa, Washington, or Virginia? Every four years, Iowa usually holds the first caucus in the nation. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Though this isn`t a presidential election year in America, primaries have still been going on starting on the first Tuesday of this month and   what they do is determine which candidates appear on the ballots this November. It`s a midterm election year. Americans will be choosing all 435 voting members of the U.S. House of Representatives. They`ll be deciding on 34   seats in the 100-member Senate. They`ll be picking governors in 36 states and a slew of politicians for state and local races will also be on the   ballots in the midterm elections. In the primaries, voters can whittle down a list of candidates who are running. For example, if several Republicans or several Democrats are all   trying to win the same seat, a primary in the spring can decide which one candidate from each party gets on the ballot in the fall. There`s a lot at stake in the midterms. Control of Congress is one of the biggest headlines. So, the election season that`s in full swing now will   decide the House and Senate makeup until at least the next election in two years. Next, we`re going to the Himalayas. Himlung Himal is a mountain in Nepal. It`s more than 2,300 feet above sea level. That makes it thousands of feet   higher than Mount Kilimanjaro or Mount Rainier, and a record was recently achieved on Himlung Himal by a climber with a spinal cord injury, even   though his team didn`t reach its summit. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SUBTITLE:  Ed Jackson just broke the highest vertical ascent record by someone with a spinal cord injury. Jackson achieved the feat on Himlung   Himal, a Himalayan mountain reaching 7,126 meters. Jackson was a professional rugby player but broke his neck diving into a swimming pool in 2017. ED JACKSON, CLIMBING RECORD HOLDER:  It rendered me completely paralyzed from the shoulders down and I had no movement or sensation returned for   quite a long time for well over a week, and I was told that I was never going to walk again. But I got very lucky and there was enough of my spinal   cord still attached that I started to make a recovery. Andt the 12-month mark, I wanted to set myself a challenge I knew that. If I put a goal in   place, then hopefully, I`d be able to keep motivated to do my rehab. SUBTITLE:  Jackson is paralyzed in four limbs, but he didn`t let this stop his climbing quest. JACKSON:  I said I wanted to climb Snowdon but I was still using two crutches and still very much disabled that it posed a big enough challenge   and I opened it up to anyone who wanted to come and join in. I`m expecting just a few people to turn up but there are 70 people on the start line who   I didn`t even know who`d come for their own different reasons. SUBTITLE:  His mountaineering dreams reached new heights, as he sets his sights on conquering Himlung Himal. JACKSON:  I kind of got hooked on mountains after that. I was just looking for the next highest one and the next highest one and, yeah, four years   later, I find myself in the Himalayas. We had to get to over 6,500 meters and we spent two weeks actually on the mountain itself, in the most sort of   remote places you could imagine. No electricity. Like, one day, we had leftovers of a yak that had been killed by a snow leopard. SUBTITLE:  But as they neared Himlung Himal`s summit, disaster struck. JACKSON:  We got to about 6,800 meters which is obviously a new record, but we had to turn around to come back. And by the time we got back down the   snow conditions had changed our guide fell through a crevasse, so then we called for a helicopter rescue and the helicopters can`t fly at night in   Nepal because they can`t fly above the height of the mountain. So, we called them at 6:00 p.m. and they said sorry, you`re going to have to --   you have to wait until morning. So, we basically had to dig in and survive a night on the mountain anywhere between minus 20 and minus 30 degrees without tents, without having eaten   or drank for nearly 24 hours. It`s one of those things that you wouldn`t choose to repeat but don`t regret. SUBTITLE:  His accident and discovery of mountaineering have powerfully shaped his outlook. JACKSON:  Just being outside in nature I think is incredibly rewarding, incredibly healing. I`ve found that it`s helped me recover mentally and   deal with the change that I`ve gone through. I was resuscitated three times. You know, I died three times in the ambulance after my accident. And I think realizing how short life can be is obviously going to give you a big perspective shift. It makes you think about what`s important in your   life. And I also realized that I was very lucky to have the support network I had. So, I wanted to recreate that for other people and people who`d been   through trauma. SUBTITLE:  With his wife, Lois, and friend, Olly Barkley, Jackson co- founded Millimetres 2 Mountains. The charity supports people facing mental health challenges by giving them access to the outdoors. JACKSON:  We take people on challenges all over the world. So, this year, we`re going to Morocco, Iceland, Nepal, and then we put in a three-year   development program which funds life-coaching retraining therapy. I hope through what I`m doing and what we`re doing with the charity and what our beneficiaries are proving can give anyone the hope that they can   turn their life around, no matter how bleak it might seem in that moment. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Ding, dong. It`s delivery. With a lesson about kids and smartphones, a mom in Texas thought her phone was locked that if her two-year-old son   was doing anything on it, he`d be taking pictures. Wrong. He was placing an order for cheeseburgers, 31 of them, and with the $16 tip he added, the   total came to more than $91. The little guy ate half a burger, leaving mom with an expensive but good story and 30-1/2 cheeseburgers to give away. Let us look at this medium rare event pragmatically. When you catch up with the boy, you can`t have beef with the plan the unyoung one cooked up. Oh,   yes, he might have mustered an order that cost a lot of bread, leaving his mom in a pickle. But once everything was said and well done, it was all bun   intentional. Today`s shout-out takes us to Naples, Maine. It is great to see the students and teachers of Lake Region Middle School watching today. I`m Carl   Azuz. END 

Date: 2022-05-26
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hi. I`m Carl Azuz for CNN 10. Thank you for watching. This is our penultimate program of the spring season. And we begin in the city of Uvalde, Texas, in the southern part of the state where many people are in mourning. New details have come out about a   shooting that took place there on Tuesday. An 18-year-old resident of Uvalde first shot a family member and then drove to an elementary school   where he attacked students and teachers. Twenty-one people were killed, 17 others were injured including three law enforcement officers, a border   patrol officer was able to kill the shooter.  Texas Governor Greg Abbott said people are rightfully angry about what happened. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) GOV. GREG ABBOTT (R), TEXAS:  Evil swept across Uvalde yesterday. To say the least, Uvalde has been shaken to its core. Families are broken apart.   Hearts are forever shattered. All Texans are grieving with the people of Uvalde. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  When U.S. President Joe Biden addressed the nation Tuesday night, he quoted the biblical Book of Psalms, saying, the Lord is near to the   brokenhearted, and then the president called for stricter gun laws in America. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  I ask the nation to pray for them, give the parents and siblings the strength in the darkness they feel   right now. As a nation, we have to ask, when in God`s name are we going to stand up to the gun lobby? We have to have the courage to stand up to the   industry.  Here`s what else I know: most Americans support common sense laws, common sense gun laws. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  But Americans are divided in Congress and communities over what those laws should be and whether they`d prevent this kind of violence.   Other suggestions have been to arm more people including teachers to defend against attacks. There have been calls for more security in the nation`s   schools and observers say more needs to be done to monitor warning signs like violent social media posts to try to prevent attacks. So while the problem of shootings persists, there`s disagreement over potential solutions. While the nations of India and Bangladesh are enduring severe floods, the opposite is true on the opposite side of the northern hemisphere. Lake   Powell and Lake Mead which are both found partly in Arizona are at such low levels that the millions who depend on these lakes could see significant   water restrictions in the days ahead. Reductions have already affected farmers. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  The Southwest megadrought is intensifying and it`s not even summer yet. Lake Mead, the nation`s   largest reservoir, keeps dropping to unprecedented lows, from human bones to old boats. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  If it`ll start --  ELAM:  The precipitous fall is revealing secrets long hidden underwater. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  There`s probably two V8 engines under the mud.  ELAM:  But the seeping waterline is cause for another grim reality. For the first time, Lake Mead, which supplies water to 40 million people in seven   states and Mexico, has fallen to an elevation of just 1, 050 feet. That could force the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation to institute a second tier of   unprecedented water restrictions following the first round of cuts triggered in January. PATTI AARON, BUREAU OF RECLAMATION:  We`re falling about a foot a week right now because of the agricultural demands downstream. ELAM:  California is one of those states that relies on water from Lake Mead. For months, Governor Gavin Newsom has called on residents and   businesses to voluntarily cut their water usage by 15 percent as the state`s reservoirs continue to shrink.  GOV. GAVIN NEWSOM (D), CALIFORNIA:  I`m standing currently 40 feet under water or should be standing 40 feet under water. ELAM:  He eventually expanded the drought emergency. NEWSOM:  We are doing what we had signaled was likely to happen. ELAM:  But despite Newsom`s pleas, Californians haven`t cut back. In fact, in March, not only was the target not met, but urban water usage rose by 90   percent from March 2020. The highest March usage since 2015, the state says.  California is entering the third year of drought punctuated by the driest first three months of a year on record and its two largest reservoirs,   Shasta Lake and Lake Oroville, are at critically low levels, standing at just half of their historical averages.  The data spurring Newsom to call a meeting with the state`s largest urban water suppliers, pressuring them to beef up their water conservation   efforts amid the urgent water crisis or potentially face a significant reduction in water use statewide this summer. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Yellow-eyed, Fiordland-crested and macaroni are all types of what? Lark, gecko, penguin, or moose? These are all types of penguins and two of them are found in New Zealand. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  According to the International Union for the Conservation of Nature, the yellow-eyed penguin has been an endangered species for decades. The   threats it faces include disease, predators and being accidentally caught in fishing gear. Fiordland penguins are doing better in the wild. They`re   classified as near threatened. That`s also from fishing, predators and disease, plus habitat changes.  You can find both species at a conservation center in New Zealand. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  On New Zealand`s south island coast, on 150 acres of private land, Penguin Place is a rescue and   rehabilitation center for sick, starving and injured penguins. It`s also a haven for this native endangered species. JASON VAN ZANTEN, CONSERVATION MANAGER, PENGUIN PLACE:  Koiho is the Maori word for yellow-eyed penguin and it means noisy shelter. It`s a chance --   after you are going to see one, you`ll hear them screaming at each other. They are the world`s only solitary species of penguin. So they don`t like   each other. STOUT:  They don`t seem to like human contact either, says Penguin Place conservation manager Jason van Zanten. VAN ZANTEN:  Believe it or not, the yellow-eyed penguins aren`t cute and cuddly like they look. They have a really vicious bite and that can do   quite a bit of damage. STOUT:  Many of these birds come to Penguin Place from the Dunedin Wildlife Hospital nearby where they`re under the care of founder and director, Dr.   Lisa Argilla. DR. LISA ARGILLA, FOUNDER, DUNEDIN WILDLIFE HOSPITAL:  I love penguins. They`re quite sexy little individuals. They all have their own individual   personalities as well. Possibly. STOUT:  This is a Fiordland crested penguin or tawaki. It`s one of New Zealand`s rarest mainland penguin species. ARGILLA:  A lot of our New Zealand penguins are in such strife reaching sort of levels of being endangered. Just trying to save these guys as best   we can, to stop them becoming extinct.  Yeah, you feel better. STOUT:  Dr. Argilla and her team treat up to 50 penguins here per season.  ARGILLA:  Most of the injuries we see are actually predator-related. This guy has got what we would be consistent with the nasty gash wounds all over   the feet from a barracuda.  STOUT:  At penguin place, these young birds are feeling the effects of climate change, unable to find enough food in the ocean due to rising sea   temperatures as well as fishing practices, van Zanten says. Around 80 percent come in underweight and need fattening up. VAN ZANTEN:  These birds have been declining a lot recently. In the last 10 or so years, we`ve lost about three quarters or 75 percent of the   population. So that`s a lot really, really quickly. Humans also have a big part to play. A lot of our public beaches unfortunately do have a lot of foot traffic on it and we cause a lot of   disturbance for these birds. Private reserves like this are really important for the species ongoing.  The work we`re doing is absolutely critical for these guys and their survival here on the mainland. STOUT:  For van Zanten`s birds, things are looking up. Before the full recovery of these penguin species, it`s baby steps. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  About a month ago, we asked you to send in original artwork designed around the number 10. Well, here`s why. We are shining up some slick new   graphics for when our show relaunches in August. We`re getting a whole new look. So even though our summer hiatus starts next week, here`s a bit of a sneak preview for those who can`t wait to see what`s coming up on CNN. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Digging in your pocket for a quarter to use a pay phone is something many have never had to do. So this won`t be nearly as nostalgic for them as   it might be for their parents, teachers, coaches. This is one of the last public pay phones in the New York City borough of Manhattan.  Because cell phones have turned it into a relic of a bygone era, it`s headed to a museum where people can imagine or hearken back to the days of   finding a phone to call home. Like E.T. Now people who thought that was a bad call might have said there`s a disconnect and called the decision dial tone deaf. They might   have told the city to hold the line while they petitioned their Rotary Club to take action. But it was not a move made out of switch boredom. There   were Pennsylvania 6-5000 reasons to do it even if some folks got hung up on the decision. I`m Carl Azuz. Lane Tech College Prep, shout-out to you watching from Chicago, Illinois.  There is one more show to go before we do for the summer break. END     

Date: 2022-05-27
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  This is it, our last show of the 2022 spring season and we`re so glad you could take minutes to watch it. My name is   Carl Azuz, and our objective coverage of world events begins in China. Government media there say more than people took part in an emergency online meeting this week. The focus: how to help the Chinese economy, the   second largest in the world, as it struggles from the communist country`s response to the ongoing COVID pandemic. While many other nations are   learning to live with the disease, China has maintained a strict zero COVID policy and what that tries to do is crush every chain of COVID   transmission. That includes mandatory quarantines, quick lockdowns, closed borders, mass testing and contact tracing which follows people wherever   they go. But a growing side effect of this is that it`s hurting China`s economic growth. International investment banks expect it`ll be significantly less   this year than it was last year. At the meeting, China`s government announced dozens of new efforts to stimulate the economy, including more   tax refunds, loans to small businesses and emergency loans to industries that are struggling. But though some of China`s COVID rules are being   relaxed, the nation`s still pushing forward with the controversial zero COVID policy and that`s created immense challenges during the omicron   variant of the disease because while it`s less severe than other versions of coronavirus, it`s more contagious. CNN estimates that China`s restrictions are impacting 220 million people across the country. Here`s how: (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SELINA WANG, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  This is part of my daily routine in Beijing. All right, getting my temperature checked, mandatory   testing for the city`s 20 million plus residents. I`ve got to show them my passport and they have to type it in every single time. In Beijing, nearly all public activity has been halted indefinitely, over just a few dozen daily COVID cases. Not a soul in sight in the center of Beijing`s luxury shopping district. All non-essential stores have been shut down, including schools and gyms,   and all-in restaurant dining is banned indefinitely. The only crowds in Beijing are parades of COVID workers spraying disinfectant all over the streets. Officials here are cracking down early and aggressively to try and avoid the failures of the months-long lockdown in Shanghai. So, it`s green, I`m good to go in. I need this green code to enter any area in Beijing. If it turns red, then I could be stuck at home or sent to   quarantine. Through these smartphone apps authorities can carefully track the movements of virtually all of China`s 1.4 billion people. If a COVID   case is later found at this grocery store, authorities can quickly contact trace and figure out whose code needs to turn red. Grocery shelves here fully stocked. Beijing officials clearly trying to show people that no matter how long this partial lockdown lasts for people   are going to be fed. It`s not going to be like in Shanghai where people have been struggling to get enough food and daily essentials in lockdown. This is a building where a positive COVID case has been found. You can see the workers in hazmat suits the blue barrier around the building. This is   to keep the people who live there locked inside but it also serves as a warning to other residents. There`s a fear that if you spend too much time   by a lockdown building, your QR code could turn red. This is just one of the many high-risk areas in Beijing residents avoid even transiting through the red dots on the map. It`s lunchtime in   Beijing`s most popular food district. Normally people here would be gathered crowded shoulder to shoulder. But now, it is essentially a ghost   town. With even most parks closed, there`s nowhere for people to gather and see friends except for by the side of the road to these unofficial public   spaces. And even here, there are signs reminding people to avoid crowds and security guards on the loudspeakers telling people to distance themselves.   But after more than two years of these on and off restrictions, people are getting frustrated. A student protest even broke out at one of China`s most prestigious universities over harsh COVID policies. Every part of our days are tracked and surveilled. People are concerned that this control is here to stay long after COVID is gone. Selina Wang, CNN, Beijing. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Which of these American car brands is the oldest? Cadillac, Chevrolet, Ford or Lincoln? Cadillac rolled onto the scene in 1902, making it the oldest carmaker on this list. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  The average car in America is now a teenager. Let me explain, Americans are holding on to their vehicles longer than ever. This is   according to S&P global mobility, which examines data from automotive markets. Now the average car on the road is just over 13 years old, which   means many are much older. And the average light truck is about 11-1/2 years old. So combined, the vehicles we commonly drive are over 12. Analysts say there are several reasons. For one thing, there`s an ongoing shortage of computer   chips and car parts for new vehicles. That`s hurt their sales and driven prices up. The used car market has been affected. Prices for previously owned vehicles hit an all-time high early this year, though they`ve dropped a little since   then. Analysts say some cars are lasting longer than they used to, so people don`t need to get rid of them. And junkyards are reporting their   lowest scrap rate in decades, so people are putting more miles on what they have. In rocket launching news, you hear a lot about SpaceX. There`s another private American company. One of its competitors that has also received   billions in funding from NASA. That company is Boeing. It also makes passenger planes, and its Starliner spacecraft just completed its first   successful mission to the International Space Station. It returned to Earth this week in the desert of New Mexico. This was an uncrewed mission. Boeing hopes to send up astronauts by the end of the   year, but it still has challenges to overcome. In this flight, there were problems with some of its thrusters which helped maneuver Starliner in   space. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANNOUNCER:  Three, two, one -- and liftoff. The Starliner is headed back to space on the shoulders of Atlas, powered by a workforce dedicated to its   success. SUBTITLE:  Boeing finally had a successful test launch of its Starliner rocket. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We know now, however, who will build those spacecraft. SUBTITLE:  In 2014, NASA awarded Boeing and SpaceX contracts to develop rockets to bring astronauts to space. Boeing has faced a myriad of problems and delays on its way to this milestone. A 2019 launch was forced to return to Earth because Starliner`s internal clock was off by 11 hours. In 2021, sticking valves caused a launch to be scratched before the Starliner was sent back to the Boeing factor to be fixed. In the time Boeing took to have its first successful uncrewed launch, SpaceX has had six astronaut launches for NASA. One NASA official said that because it was used to the Boeing process, it focused a little more on SpaceX and its non-traditional approach. And another NASA official admitted not enough about Starliner was understood. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Hard to think of a better story for our 10 out of 10 segment than a sharkcano. Yeah, a sharkcano. A NASA satellite recently photographed a   plume of discolored water in the Pacific Ocean. Scientists say this is where an undersea volcano in the Solomon Islands is continuously erupting and an expedition here in 2015 found that the crater   is home to silky and hammerhead sharks. They`re apparently able to tolerate the hot and acidic water so it`s a sharkcano. You`d have to be pretty cal-daring to swim down there. Few things are crater than a shark that gives vent to its rage. No one would have to ask   you to lava. You wouldn`t lack a list of reasons to quit being sill and swim from the hill like mag-mama told you to. I`m Carl Azuz, and that takes a bite out of our last show of the season. I want to give a shout-out to Jones Magnet Middle School and all of our viewers watching in Hampton, Virginia. We`ve got some new stuff in the works, so please keep up with us on our YouTube channel, and this here daily show will resume in August. From all   of us here at CNN 10, thank you for being the best audience in news. END     

Date: 2022-09-12
COY WIRE, CNN ANCHOR:  Hey, everyone. I`m Coy and welcome back to a brand new season of CNN 10. I am pumped to be hanging out with you this week. We have a new look and some new segments that we can`t wait to introduce. But, first, let`s get straight to the news.  The British monarchy has lost its queen. Queen Elizabeth II died on Thursday at the age of 96 at Balmoral Castle in Scotland. The Queen`s reign   lasted 70 years, having become queen at the age of 25. She ruled during a period of tremendous social and political change and ushered the crown into the 21st century. After seven decades on the throne,   Thursday marked the end of a remarkably popular reign, despite a number of high-profile scandals that followed the British royal family over the   years.  President Biden called Queen Elizabeth a monarch who defined an era and ordered American flags be flown at half staff. The Queen had met with 13 of   the last 14 presidents. The Queen`s oldest son Charles immediately became king and will formally be crowned in the coming months.  In the meantime, Britain is conducting a 10-day morning ritual. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) QUEEN ELIZABETH II, UNITED KINGDOM:  I knew that your support will be unfailingly given. God help me to make good my vows and God bless all of   you who are willing to share in it. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Queen Elizabeth II was U.K.`s longest running monarch, born in 1926, she was known as Lilibet to her family and friends. She was never expected   to be queen. Her future path changed entirely when she became heir presumptive at the age of 10 with her uncle King Edward VIII gave up the   crown and her father then ascended to the throne.  Her reign began in 1952 after her father died while she and her husband Philip were in Kenya. A year later, she was crowned in the first ever   televised coronation. It was watched by millions around the world. During her reign, she worked with 15 British prime ministers and she traveled more widely than any other British king or queen before her. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) QUEEN ELIZABETH II:  I address you today as Queen of 16 United Nations member states and as head of the commonwealth of 54 countries. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Diamond jubilee events marked 60 years of her reign in 2012. She was also the first British monarch to celebrate a platinum jubilee after years   on the throne. In 2021, her husband Prince Philip, the duke of Edinburgh, died. Her lifelong companion, they had been married for seven decades, having given   speeches across the world. It is perhaps her distinctive voice many will remember. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) QUEEN ELIZABETH II:  We are just passing through. Our purpose here is to observe, to learn, to grow, to love, and then we return home. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Yesterday was the 21st anniversary of the September 11th attacks. The day caused chaos, terror and death when the al Qaeda terrorist group   carried out coordinated attacks against America. Nearly 3,000 people were killed when terrorists flown planes crashed into the World Trade Center in   New York City, the Pentagon in Washington D.C., and a field in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, as passengers attempted to overpower the hijackers. Yesterday, President Biden was scheduled to mark the anniversary of the attacks by delivering remarks and laying a wreath at the Pentagon. The   First Lady Jill Biden was set to deliver remarks at the Flight 93 National Memorial Observance in Shanksville. And Vice President Kamala Harris   planned to travel to New York city for a commemoration ceremony with families of the victims at the National September 11th Memorial. In reflection of the day and its impact, we`ve posted on our YouTube page a special tour from inside the 9/11 Memorial Museum. You can check that out   at youtube.com/CNN10. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE (voice-over):  It`s 10-second trivia time. In Greek mythology, who is the goddess of the hunt? Is it Artemis, Athena, Nike or Iris? Drum roll, please.  In ancient Greek mythology, Artemis is the goddess of the hunt in the wilderness. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Up next, we`re looking up. Humans haven`t been back to the moon since 1972, but NASA wants to change that with their newest mission,   Artemis. But last week, the space administration called off the launch of the mission for the second time. The latest reason: a hydrogen leak   detected before blast off. Days before, the launch was delayed when an engine failed to reach the correct temperature.  NASA officials feel it`s better to be safe than starry, and they just need more time to fix the problem. NASA says they`ll likely relaunch Artemis   later this month or maybe in October.  The program has an astronomical price tag. NASA already spent $40 billion to develop the rocket. They`re behind schedule and over-budget. The Artemis   mission has also faced criticism from people who believe Elon Musk`s SpaceX offers a more cost effective and efficient way to travel to space. NASA has big plans for Artemis. They hope future launches will carry astronauts to the moon`s south pole and they ultimately want to establish a   permanent base on the moon for humans to live and work. That plan could come lunar than later. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NEIL ARMSTRONG, NASA ASTRONAUT:  That`s one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind. RACHEL CRANE, CNN INNOVATION AND SPACE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  July 20th, 1969, the culmination of nearly a decade of work that would lead to a   half century of technological innovations. The Apollo program landed 12 men on the moon in a span of less than four years. But humans haven`t been back since 1972.  Now, NASA wants to change that with the Artemis missions. In Greek mythology, Artemis was the twin sister of Apollo. In a nod to the female   goddess, NASA plans to send the first woman as well as the first person of color to the lunar surface. The timeline has been a moving target, first   planned for 2028, the bullseye is now 2025.  But the goal is bigger than a few boots on the ground. This time, NASA wants to establish a permanent base on the moon by learning how to live and   work there. The hope is that astronauts will eventually take that knowledge to the next frontier, Mars. But for the next decade or so, the focus is on   the moon. Here`s how NASA would make it happen: astronauts would travel to the moon on the Orion spacecraft, on top of the most powerful rocket NASA has ever   built. Orion would then rendezvous with Gateway, a space station orbiting the moon. From there, astronauts would transfer to a reusable lunar lander   built by a commercial partner like SpaceX. Unlike Apollo, the Gateway space station would allow access to more areas of the moon. It will also be the home of scientific experimentation and   NASA plans to continually send astronauts to the moon for years to come after the first phase of Artemis. But getting there won`t be easy. It is rocket science after all. BILL NELSON, NASA ADMINISTRATOR:  We will not fly astronauts until it`s safe and if that means there`s a delay, then we will delay. CRANE:  Already, the Artemis program has suffered delays. Critical pre- launch tests have been hampered by issues with propellant loading and a malfunctioning helium check valve.  The number one issue is safety, but all of that testing and tinkering doesn`t come cheap. In 2019, NASA estimated it would take to $20 billion to   $30 billion to get humans back to the moon. But NASA`s inspector general says that won`t even be close. It estimates the entire program will cost a   whopping $93 billion by 2025.  Whether it gets full funding or not, NASA stands firm that the lunar landing will happen. NELSON:  We`re going back to the moon, but this time, we`re going back to learn, to stay, to develop new systems, new technologies, new techniques on   how to live a long time in that hostile environment because when we go to Mars, we`re going to have to have learned that.  CRANE:  In 1969, Apollo took humanity to new heights. By 2025, Artemis could prepare it for new worlds. (END VIDEOTAEP) WIRE:  And for 10 out of 10, check this out. Cargo pants make quite the fashion statement, but how about cargo pants made from fast food napkin,   and they even zip off into shorts? Perfect for any season or meal I guess.  The Chipotle Company partnering with designer Nicole McLaughlin who once made shorts out of Legos. The company posted images of the process, sewing   the napkins together. But if you`d like to rock a pair of these, they won`t be available. They`re one of a kind and the only chance customers have it   wearing some is to try to make them yourself. Chipotle napkin pants, I don`t know. Well, you`d have a place to wipe your hands when you`re done, and you`d definitely give people something to taco about. Before we go I want to give a shout out to Richmond Middle and High School in Richmond, Maine. Go Bobcats! You get the first shout-out of the new   season.  We hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one. I`m Coy Wire. Thanks for watching CNN 10.  END     

Date: 2022-09-13
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, everyone? I am Coy, aka, Bald Dude, Mr. Clean, and I am humbled and grateful to be hanging with you this week   right here on CNN 10.  Lots to get to you this beautiful Tuesday, so, let`s go. Starting with an update on the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine. Let`s take 10 to   see where things stand. Russia`s invasion of Ukraine began February 24th when Russian President Vladimir Putin announced a military operation in response to what he called   NATO expansion against Russia. The invasion has received international criticism and a lot of countries around the world won`t do business with   Russia anymore, and that has impacted the global economy. This week, Ukrainian troops have retaken more than 11,000 square miles of territory about the size of Rhode Island, and that`s more than Russian   troops have captured in all operations since April. As Ukraine reclaimed some domain, many military and government officials are celebrating and   some government officials across Russia are campaigning for Putin`s resignation.  But the war is far from over. The Russian government on Monday insisted it`ll achieve its goals in Ukraine and is responding by hitting critical   infrastructure across Ukraine and causing blackouts there. Now, while we may be living in a time of EVs, A.I., robots and drones, the military   tactics of this war make the conflicts look more like they`re taking place a hundred years ago. Check it out. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORTER (voice-over):  Heavy artillery fire and a slow-moving front line, we may be in an era of technological progress, but the Russian invasion of   Ukraine seems to share many similarities with conflicts a hundred years ago.  PROF. MALCOLM CHALMERS, DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL, RUSI:  In the West for the last 30 years, we`ve been used to fighting against opponents who in strict   military terms have been greatly inferior in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya.  And one of the key characteristics of those wars it has been that from the start, the United States and its allies have totally dominated the air and   that has made -- their opponents have had to hide.  The biggest difference with this conflict, which makes it more like conventional conflicts, is that neither side completely controls the air,   and that basically means that forces on the ground can move around without immediately being targeted from the air. That basic political objective of Ukraine is to maintain its sovereignty, controlling as much of its territory as possible. From the Russian point of   view their ideal objective is to destroy Ukraine as an independent state and to either annex it to Russia or to make it a satellite state of Russia.   It`s really critical where that front line is because at some stage, the conflict becomes more frozen and the politics will be determined about   where that front line is. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE (voice-over):  It`s 10-second trivia time. President John F. Kennedy delivered his "we choose to go to the moon" speech from what American university? Who says Harvard? How about Boston College? Maybe the University of Virginia. Or is it Rice? In 1962, JFK delivered his moonshot speech from Rice University in Houston, Texas. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOHN F. KENNEDY, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT:  We choose to go to the moon in this decade and do the other things, not because they are easy but because   they are hard. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Yesterday, President Biden channeled former President John F. Kennedy at his presidential library in Boston on the 60th anniversary of   that famous moonshot speech you just heard. But this time, the topic wasn`t space. It was cancer. President Biden highlighted his administration`s efforts aimed at, quote, ending cancer as we know it. In his speech, the president planned to draw   attention to new technology that uses blood tests to screen against multiple cancers. Experts agree though that it`s too early to know whether   these tests will have any effect on cancer deaths.  President Biden hopes to move the U.S. closer to the goal he set in February of cutting U.S. cancer fatalities by 50 percent over the next 25   years.  In 2022, the American Cancer Society estimates 1.9 million new cases of cancer will be diagnosed and around 60 people will die from the disease.   This initiative is a personal one for President Biden who lost his son Beau in 2015 to bring answer. It`s also a complicated one, as scientists now   understand that cancer is not one disease but hundreds that respond differently to different treatments. Despite Biden`s attempts to channel President Kennedy`s moonshot program, his current cancer initiative lacks the same level of budgetary support as   the Apollo program, which garnered public investment equaling $220 billion in today`s dollars. (MUSIC) WIRE:  All right. Many hairs ago, I was an NFL player. So I am pumped to bring you some Tuesday motivation from one of the most improbable success   stories in the league today.  Younghoe Koo, Korean born, couldn`t speak any English when he moved to the U.S. at 12 years old. He was told, you`re not good enough. He was cut from   his team. But now, he`s a pro bowler and one of the highest paid kickers in the NFL. Athlete or not, for those of you who have a goal to get or a point to prove, Younghoe`s message is this: tough times make us tougher. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  You moved to the U.S. You`re 12 years old. What was that transition like? What was that experience like?  YOUNGHOE KOO, ATLANTA FALCONS KICKER:  Well, at the time it was tough like I was in middle school, like I had a Korean friend that was you know in   every single one of my classes, so he can translate for me if he needed to be. WIRE:  You couldn`t even speak English yet. KOO:  I was in ESL for two years. So, you know, I remember like going home because all day I`m just smiling you know like nodding. WIRE:  That`s cool. KOO:  I don`t want to look stupid, but also, I don`t know what`s going on. And then I go home, it`s like I have no idea what happened today. And all   they were saying was just like, hey, my name is this. Nice to meet you, like welcome or something. WIRE:  How did football kind of help with that transition to life here in the States? KOO:  Big time. Without that I don`t think I would have you know known what to do like on the weekends. You know, like I didn`t -- I remember sitting   in a car going to practice with a bunch of my friends and I didn`t know how to ask like, hey, what do you guys do on the weekends? WIRE:  You wanted to hang out. KOO:  Yeah, but I didn`t know how to like phrase that, or even like form a sentence at that time. So I just like -- I remember just like asking out,   like you know I`m bored. But they`re like right now? Like in a car going to practice?  I was like no, no, like on the weekends. So I like just threw stuff together that I remember that feeling. I was like nervous to like say   something because like, you know, I don`t want to sound stupid, you know, at the time. So then that weekend, they called me to hang out so that`s when I like really like picked up, you know, English and stuff like that. So without   football like, I wouldn`t probably wouldn`t be talking like this or anything like that. So --   WIRE:  Did you ever experience, you know, racism being Asian-American growing up? KOO: I didn`t really take it to heart. Like I didn`t really let anything like come to me just because they say something, like now, like social   media is like that, right?  Everybody got an opinion. Everybody has something to say. Everybody can say something if they want to. It`s not really my responsibility to soak that   all in and absorb them.  My dad taught me, you know, from a young age. He was like, hey, football doesn`t know who`s kicking it. WIRE:  That`s right. KOO:  You`re White, Black, Asian or whatever, like when the ball is flying, they don`t know who kicked it. They just see the result and they see the   ball and they`re like, all right, that kid`s good. WIRE:  Twenty-seven-years-old, has any of this hit you yet? KOO:  No, I learned a lot from my journey. I felt like I made it my rookie year when I won the job going into week one, I was like, oh, this is it,   like I did it, you know? Fast forward four weeks, I was cut. So I was like, it taught me, I was like, hey, this is never over. Like you got to compete every single day,   like you got to produce. It`s a production business. That`s what the head coach told me at the time when I was getting released.  What was that like when you, you know, you`re at the Chargers, you think I`ve arrived and all of a sudden, you`re out in the streets? KOO: Right. That was tough. That was tough for sure because for the first time ever in like in October, during the football season, I was just   sitting at home, you know? That was a huge wake up, a kind of realization of like, hey, like what went wrong there? You got to kind of dig in and see   what went wrong and get ready for the next opportunity, so when it comes to this, this doesn`t happen again. WIRE:  What do you hope your story says to the next generation of Asian- Americans? KOO:  I think representation is big because growing up for me in football, there was nobody that looked like me. So it was harder for me to like   visualize like, oh, he`s doing it like I can do it, you know, stuff like that.  If you look at my story, you know, like I didn`t speak English, I didn`t know what football was. I was struggling to say, hey, what are you doing   this weekend to here, you know? Like I think, you know, anybody can if they have a dream and just chase it and work hard, set a plan and go after it. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  No matter what you`re going through, surround yourself with good people and remember, you can always gain strength through your struggles.   You`re more powerful than you know. Speaking of powerful, today`s shout out is going to Cheney Middle School in West Fargo, North Dakota. Go Packers. We hope you and everyone watching   around the world have a wonderful one.  I`m Coy Wire. Thanks for watching CNN 10.  END     

Date: 2022-09-14
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, everyone? I`m Coy and I am so grateful that I get to hang out with you this week right here on CNN 10. We have a rocking show for you this wonderful Wednesday, but we do have to start with the latest out of Pakistan where people are hurting as their   nation`s been devastated by flooding. Severe floods have swept away roads, homes schools and hospitals, leaving nearly one-third of the South Asian   country under water. Millions of people have been forced from their homes and are struggling through waist-deep water to reach safety. The current crisis began when severe monsoon rains hit the country last week piling water on top of more than two months worth of record flooding   that has already killed hundreds of people and displaced millions more. Nearly all of the country`s crops and significant amounts of livestock and   fertilizer have been damaged by the floods, harming the food supply. Pakistan was already reeling from the economic inflation which makes the price of food unattainable for many of its citizens. Experts are now   concerned about another round of food shortages and disease which could be transmitted through contaminated water in the coming weeks. Authorities say   that the flooding could take up to six months to recede which could even impact the country`s planting season in October. As the flooding threatens to set the country`s progress back and potentially worsen existing political tensions, the United Nations is   currently urging support for Pakistan. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Trying to get to higher ground, this is one of the few roads that has not been completely   submerged underwater and there`s just a steady flow of people coming here and you can see they`re crammed into buses, they`re on rickshaws, they`re   on motorcycles, and they`ve just tried to grab whatever they possibly can salvage from their homes and move it to higher ground. But the fear is this   isn`t going to be higher ground for that much longer because even though there`s no rain forecast here for the next five days, the water levels here   are still rising.  And that`s because this is essentially a catchment area. This is right between the Indus river and the marcher lake and the end result of that is   that there is nowhere for this water to run off to and all the rain that`s coming from other parts of the country in the north is kind of running down   here and swelling into this area.  And what is so pronounced here is you don`t see any aid workers here. You don`t see any aid being distributed. These are hard to reach areas the   Pakistani government is doing its level best to get people what they need, but the demand is so huge, one U.N. official calling it a logistical   nightmare. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right. Let`s go 10-second trivia time.  Which constellation is known as the Hunter?  Is it Andromeda, Orion, Gemini or Taurus? One of the most recognizable in the night sky is the belt-wearing Orion constellation that`s known as the Hunter. Next up, we`re traveling to the Orion constellation with a photo that is five years in the making. On Monday, new images were released showing   thousands of never seen before stars and this image of a newborn star from the Orion nebula. The images were taken by the James Webb telescope and   hopes are that the data from it can help us understand how stars and planetary systems are formed.  According to scientists, these images reveal an environment similar to our own solar system when it formed more than 4.5 billion years ago. The   technology works by detecting infrared light in the cosmos which allows observers to see through layers of dust, illustrating what`s happening   inside the Milky Way.  The images are said to be the sharpest ever taken and part of the goal for the Webb telescope is detecting distant and faint galaxies. The telescope itself was launched in 2021. According to NASA, the telescope will cost the American taxpayer $10 billion. Next up, some inspiration and motivation in the form of a story of a young girl from rural Kenya. Growing up, she`d never even heard of a compute.   Now, she`s enhancing the lives of young people in her community through repurposing discarded technology she`s aiming to create positive change in   this world one computer at a time. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NELLY CHEBOI, 2022 CNN HERO:  I never forget what it was like growing poor. I never forget what it was like my stomach churning because of hunger at   night. I would have to go and scavenge for food at trash bits. We grew up in a tin roof house. It was full of potholes.  I used to look at the different light bouncing from the holes from the roof, and then just imagine what we look like to sustainably fix poverty.  I was a very hardworking student even though I wasn`t in school often, and even though I was the most hardworking person I knew, I still did not know   what a computer was. I am from Mogotio which is a small village in rural Kenya. And there isn`t much of an economic activity here. I got a full-ride four-year scholarship   in America at Augustana College in 2012. I got a job as a janitor cleaning bathrooms. I discovered computer science in my junior year of college just out of accident. I needed to take an   introduction to java for my math major and I just fell in love with it. I just knew this was what I wanted to do and also bring it to my community. Every three years, companies are upgrading their IT. Most of these computers are ending up in landfills. Well, we have kids here, myself   included back in the day, who don`t even know what a computer is.  And so, what we`re doing is that we`re working with institutions, colleges, companies, even individuals and then we bring it to the schools. We   refurbish them. We install our own custom operating system that is geared towards teaching our kids self-efficacy troubleshooting and Internet   skills. All of you are going to be graphic designers today.  Right now, we`re working with 4,000 kids. My hope is that when the first TechLit kids graduate high school, their families and themselves will not   need aid because they can make money online. That money will support their families. Their money will support themselves. I can`t even describe just how dehumanizing poverty is. Just getting crushed over and over again my mom was working really hard and I was still   going to bed hungry. I was still living in a house that was flooding, but the world is your oyster when you are educated.  The thing that was really fascinating me growing up, not seeing change, not seeing hope, not even seeing progress. I feel like with this kid, I can see   a path like, I can see a way where they can make a living online. And that is really like why we`re doing this work. My life is bigger than myself. If I have the power to change anything, I have to do it. I have to give it my all. I can keep doing it. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right. How`s this for a 10 out of 10? Four people broke a Guinness world record by playing putt-putt for 24 hours straight. They walked miles during their mission. Two thousand ninety-seven   holes, that`s the most holes of mini golf ever completed by a foursome in a 24-hour span. It happened at a putt-putt course in northern Kentucky and   they blasted past the previous record set in Germany back in 2005 by 657 holes.  And it gets better. They did it to help raise money for a humanitarian and disaster relief organization. Putting for a purpose. But 24 hours straight,   way to go team. All right. Got to give some special shout-outs. First, the two middle schools that I attended in good old Pennsylvania, Lemoyne and New   Cumberland. I miss pizza day in the cafeteria. I miss my hair too. Oh, the good old days. What`s up, little brother?  Also, we see you Crusaders of the Saint Joseph School in Martinsburg, West Virginia. We hope you and everyone watching around the world have a   wonderful one. I`m Coy. Thanks for watching CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-09-15
CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Happy Friday eve, everyone. I`m Coy, aka bald dude, aka handsome Squidward. I`m thankful to be hanging with you this week   right here on CNN 10.  Today, we have an awesome show for you, so let`s go. Now, we`ve talked a lot this year about inflation when prices go up and your money doesn`t go as far. It`s been a constant concern for families,   consumers and investors. And in the U.S., it`s been growing.  A new report this week shows it`s up 8.3 percent from a year ago and it`s at a nearly four decade high overall. This news has worried financial   markets and analysts are concerned it could mean the start of a recession though some economists have argued we`re already in a recession right now. On Tuesday, stock markets recorded their largest daily loss in two years in reaction to this inflation report. Up until now, consumers have mostly   powered through and haven`t been spending less. New data is showing that many families are starting to spend less on things like electronics and   furniture as the price of basic essentials like food get more expensive.  Still, the current job market continues to show signs of being strong, but economists fear that the only way for the Federal Reserve to slow inflation   is to continue to raise interest rates so high that unemployment increases and potentially cause an official recession. This new inflation report is bad news for President Biden who said that the economy was on its way to recovery. The report instead showed that the U.S.   economy has a long way to go before inflation is under control. For now, workers have lost buying power with inflation moving more quickly than wage   increases. And the price of basic necessities is becoming unattainable for many families. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  These inflation numbers seem to catch everybody off-guard. Most economists were expecting price rises to cool in   August. Instead, headline inflation actually rose by 0.1 percent compared to the previous month, and that`s despite the fact that a key driver for   inflation, the price of gas actually fell.  So that means that price rises have spread beyond energy and into other areas of the economy. The cost of shelter, medical care and food all rising   sharply.  Investors shock was reflected on Wall Street with the deepest losses for stocks since the darkest days of the pandemic in June 2020. The Dow Jones   Industrial Average fell by more than 1,200 points. Tech stocks took the biggest hit, the likes of Apple, Facebook parent Meta and chipmaker Nvidia   all seeing huge losses.  Judging by the reaction on Wall Street Tuesday, it seems investors are betting that a so-called soft landing is becoming less and less likely. Rahel Solomon, CNN, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next, some news out in northern California where firefighters are battling a major wildfire they`re calling the Mosquito Fire. It`s the   largest wildfire currently burning in California. It began west of Lake Tahoe on September 6 near Mosquito Ridge Road. It`s where it`s got its name   from. Now it came after weeks of extreme heat. So far, the fire has consumed over 50,000 acres and is spreading into the Sierra Nevada mountains and it was   only percent contained on Wednesday. More than 11,000 people have been forced to flee. It`s burned structures overall and at least 25 homes.  And the fire is a triple threat. The blaze is now headed toward a dry forest area amid a water shortage and in a drought-ravaged area making the   homes and land fuel for the fire. But the Mosquito Fire is just one of many fires burning across the country. There are large active fires across the   western part of the U.S. right now. More than 800,000 acres have already burned this fire season and local fire teams are using everything they can   to contain the blazes.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORTER:  The Mosquito Fire reared its head Tuesday, but fire crews came out swinging.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Tanker drops that have been flying over at treetop level. REPORTER:  Tankers whisking above the tree line, dumping retardant by the thousands of gallons to meet the advancing flames. Helicopters disappearing into choking smoke plumes to drop water. Ground crews ready to stop their foe with lines built by hand tools, sweat and   strength. Massive machinery deployed in the form of dozers, carving wide lines in the earth. And a firing operation initiated by those boots on the ground   creating a human-made line of fire, with the goal of stopping the fire in this stubborn dry terrain. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  All right. Animal lovers, here`s your totally random fact of the day. Did you know in Switzerland, it`s illegal to own just one guinea pig?  That`s right. Under article 13 of Switzerland`s animal protection ordinance, guinea pigs are considered to be social creatures and must be   given adequate social contact with animals of the same species. Hashtag squad goals.  So next time you`re at your pet store, remember, no lonely guinea pigs. Now, that`s random. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Next, details about Elon Musk`s potential purchase of Twitter which he agreed to buy for $44 billion back in April. Within a couple weeks,   though, Musk was like hold up, and he tried to back away from the deal, accusing Twitter of having too many bots and lying about the number of fake   accounts on the platform.  Let`s hear more details from Claire Duffy, a CNN business writer covering the business of big tech. She`ll also dive into a new tool from Twitter   that helps the platform determine what`s a bot and what`s not. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CLAIRE DUFFY, WRITER, CNN BUSINESS:  In April, Elon Musk agreed to buy Twitter for $44 billion. But within a couple of weeks, he started to get   cold feet. He accused Twitter of having too many bots and of lying about the number of bots on its platform. One of the tools that both experts and   Elon Musk have used to better understand the prevalence of bots on Twitter`s platform is called bottom meter.  To test out how it works, we can look at my Twitter account and see how it rates me.  The bottom meter score is from zero to five. The zero being most likely to be a human account and five being most likely to be a bot account. As you   can see, the tool rated my account is 0.5 out of 5. So most likely to be a human. Another cool thing about this tool is if you go into this details section, you can see tweets by time of day and day of the week. Now, with a bot   account, you might see that the account is tweeting all through the night because it`s managed by software and it doesn`t need a human to get up and   tweet late at night.  You might also see that they send the same number of tweets every single day of the week which a human just typically wouldn`t do.  It`s important to know that the tool doesn`t actually prove whether an account is a bot or not. What it does is it looks at the behavior of an   account and decides whether it looks more like a human account or something that`s automated something that`s managed by software. SAM WOOLLEY, CO-AUTHOR OF "BOTS":  We won`t know how many bots there are on Twitter. I don`t know if we`ll ever know how many bots there are on Twitter   because bots exist on sort of a gradient. There`s human at one -- on one side of bot, and another side, but many, many accounts on Twitter are run   by some combination of humans and bots. DUFFY:  There are also some good bot accounts, automated accounts that help spread news or information about events in the world. We can take a look at   this account Earthquake Bot, which tweets about earthquakes that are happening all around the world to warn people when they`ve happened. Bottom   meter rates this account as a 4.1 out of 5, most likely to be run by automated software. And the account does say in its description that it`s a   bot. It`s run by a computer. Twitter does allow these good bots. It even has a label where they can transparently identify themselves to viewers who might not otherwise know   that they were run by a computer.  Now, of course, there are the bad bots that you`ve probably seen if you`re on Twitter. The bots that might be trying to get you to buy cryptocurrency   or that might be impersonating another real human account.  Elon Musk for one would say that these bots can detract from the user experience and could take away from the long-term value of Twitter. WOOLLEY:  Everyone`s known that bots have existed on Twitter since its inception. It`s been incredibly well reported. One of the things that I`m a little bit skeptical of here is the idea that you would know that bots exist on Twitter and that they`re just part of the   ecosystem and they`re part and parcel to the platform in many ways. DUFFY:  Twitter, of course, is it does a lot to detect and remove those bad bot accounts. The company says that it uses both human and automated   systems to review accounts and that it removes about a million bot accounts every day. WOOLLEY:  This is a huge, huge task, and it`s really challenging in particular because it has to be scaled through AI or machine learning. You   basically can`t have humans go through 300 million accounts, right?  And so AI and machine learning are not perfect tools. They will have a lot of false positives and false negatives. They will say this account is a bot   when it`s not and vice versa. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  We can`t wait to hear what you think about the 10 out of 10 we found for today. The first ever four-door Ferrari. This model was just revealed by the Italian carmaker. It`s called the Purosangue. The new car is their first   full-size seated ride, so you can bring your whole crew if you wanted to. With over 700 horsepower, it`s set to be the fastest SUV in the world,   going zero to 60 in 3.3 seconds, and hitting top speeds of more than 190 miles per hour.  But before you rush to the local Ferrari dealer, warning, it ain`t cheap. Four hundred thousand dollars. All right. Now to my favorite part of the day, we want to give a friendly shout out to Saint Jude Apostle Catholic School in Sandy Springs, Georgia.   We see you and we hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one.  I`m Coy. Thanks for watching CNN 10.   END     

Date: 2022-09-16
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  You made it. Happy Friday, everyone. I`m Coy and we are pumped to be here with you to help you kick your weekend off right,   right here on CNN 10. Awesome show today, so hop on board and let`s go.  Some news surrounding the U.S. railroad industry. Freight railroad carriers and union representatives are on track to reach a potential deal after   fears that there might be a strike. The negotiations had been ongoing for 20 hours and came days after the train companies chose to cancel their long   distance trains so that passengers wouldn`t be stranded if the strike happened. The employees want better pay, improved working conditions and   the ability to attend medical appointments without losing pay. The new contract they`ve agreed to also gives them a 24 percent pay increase over the next five years. After reaching an agreement this week,   workers need to vote in order to seal the deal.  The strike may be averted for now, but if no official deal is reached a national railroad strike could have serious economic effects, a walkout of   60,000 workers could derail industries across the country and impact the supply chain.  According to the Association of American Railroads, this could cost the economy two billion dollars a day. We also could see higher gas and food   prices and more expensive consumer goods.  But analysts say that even if a deal is signed the railroad industry still faces a number of issues including labor shortages and competition from   trucking companies. We`ll hear now from CNN chief business correspondent Christine Romans about the potential economic impact a strike like this could have. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  The rail system, an artery for the American economy here. No question.  Here`s some of the other ways a nationwide freight rail strike could affect you the consumer.  Higher gas prices. About 300,000 barrels of crude oil moved by rail every day. That`s enough to supply two mid-size refineries. If the refineries   can`t get the crude, they`ll be forced to cut production and they won`t be able to ship already refined fuel either. Higher food prices as well here, and shortages potentially on shelves. Just harvested crops like corn, soybeans and wheat, they won`t get to food   processors, and not just here in the U.S. You know, U.S. corn exports to China, a huge amount of grain move out of the Pacific Northwest a long way   by rail from the Midwest.  Right now, meat packers are also very concerned they can`t have their fresh meat packed into rail cars only to be stranded on the tracks, right? Beyond food, you`re looking at higher prices and potential shortages of other goods you buy in stores and online like house wares and hardware and   clothes, you name it. If distributors in stores can`t get them, you can`t buy them. And the holiday shopping season, by the way, is right around the   corner. And the manufacturing, same logic here. If factories can`t get parts, if factories can`t get raw materials, then assembly lines grind to a halt and   they can`t ship what they`ve already made either. A rail strike would put the brakes on delivering new cars, new trucks, SUVs automakers, already   struggling to rev up production due to a part shortage left over from the pandemic a new car supply is already limited and prices are at record highs   there, pausing factory production would only make it worse. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE (voice-over):  It`s 10-second trivia time. Tegucigalpa is the capital of what Central American country? Honduras, Guatemala, Nicaragua or Belize? Home to more than a million people, Tegucigalpa is the capital of Honduras. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Our next story takes us to the nation of Honduras where off the coast, we go underwater to explore a rarely seen part of the ocean. It`s   called the ocean`s twilight zone. It`s the area between the shallow part of the ocean that gets the sunlight and the dark ocean floor.  Scuba diving scientist Luiz Rocha is studying ocean life in this area where few scientists have gone before. And he`s already discovered new species of   fish. Rocha feels that the more we understand these habitats the better we can protect them. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LUIZ ROCHA, SCUBA DIVING SCIENTIST:  So the shallow reefs that everybody is used to seeing, they`re a very diverse ecosystem. There are many, many   species occurring together, living together in very close proximity.  The deeper you go, the less energy the ecosystem has, so the less sunlight reaches the deeper reefs. Because of that, there`s a lot less species.  When you get up close, it`s still a very colorful ecosystem. There`s many, many different kinds of fish and many of them are unknown. In the past 10 years, I think I discovered about 30 new species. My name is Luiz Rocha. I`m curator of ichthyology and co-director of the Hope for Reefs Initiative at the California Academy of Sciences.. Ichthyology is the study of fish. I`ve always been fascinated by fish, always had aquariums in my house growing up. Almost everything we know   about coral reefs comes from the top 30 meters or so. That`s the limit of recreational diving. The ocean`s twilight zone, the portion that I study, it`s the coral reef between 200 and 500 feet. The technical term for it is mesophotic coral   ecosystem.  Diving at those depths is very different and that requires a lot of training. Because very few scientists do it, a lot of things about this   region are unknown, so every dive we do to those depths is a new discovery.  It`s very demanding to dive at those levels for a human. It`s lots and lots of preparation concentration. And then going down, the anxiety is really   great because everything gets dark and then everything gets calmer, colder, and then when we get there, we know why we`re there. When we see something   that nobody has ever seen before, it`s absolutely amazing. Coral reefs are under tremendous threats. They`re suffering because of overfishing, pollution, fishing pollution, plastic pollution, even at   places that nobody has ever seen before. So that was one of our first discoveries that those deeper reefs are really not a refuge for shallow   reef organisms.  And then at the global level, the biggest threat today is climate change. So the waters are warming. They`re warming everywhere in the planet and the   warmer they get, the worse it is for coral reefs.  I don`t think it`s enough just to do the science. We take many, many photographs. We bring those stories back up to the surface so then we share   with as many people as possible. I think it`s extremely important to engage local communities about their own reefs we`re using local names to name the   fish because it gives ownership to the local people. And we also always engage with policymakers everywhere we go to try to increase protection on shallow reefs and on deep reefs.  And for the most part, when people realize that those reefs are there, they move towards protecting them.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s 10 out of 10, we`re heading to the Minnesota state fair for this. Look out, a good old-fashioned rooster crowing contest. What? You`ve never been to one? Well, here`s how it works: the feathery contestants get 30 minutes to try to be the squawk of the town. Rooster with the most crows wins. On this day, a bird named Buster took the top spot, 32 crows. Last place went to a dude named Silent Bob, zero crows. Way to stay true to yourself,   Bob. You do you. We want to give a special shout out now to Mililani Middle School in Mililani, Hawaii. Did you know, fun fact Friday, that the state fish of   Hawaii is the Humuhumunukunukuapua`a? Uh-huh, try saying that times real fast or just try saying toy boat times real fast. Good luck.  Aloha and happy Friday, y`all. We hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful weekend.  I`m Coy. Thanks for watching CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-09-19
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Coy here hoping you had an awesome weekend. We`re here for you all week, breaking down the news you   need to know right here on CNN 10. Let`s start with a quick look at some of the significant headlines from around the world. A powerful 6.9 magnitude earthquake rocks Taiwan on Sunday. Four hundred tourists were trapped after a landslide. The earthquake has also prompted   tsunami warnings for Japan`s southern coastline. Dozens of earthquakes have rattled this area in recent days but this was the largest. Next up, when we produced this show, the island of Puerto Rico was bracing for tropical storm Fiona after it had charged through the Virgin Islands on   Saturday. Fiona had the potential of strengthening into a hurricane before hitting the U.S. territory later on Sunday. Forecasters say that potential   flooding and mudslides could be life-threatening. More than 170,000 people were already without power in Puerto Rico. And, finally, the royal family saying goodbye to its matriarch after a period of mourning. A funeral is planned today for Queen Elizabeth II   honoring her 70 years of service. Hundreds of foreign leaders are in town to pay their respects. The day has been declared a public holiday in   England. The Queen`s funeral will end with a two-minute nationwide moment of silence. CNN royal correspondent Max Foster was in London during the royal proceedings as Englanders were mourning their Queen. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MAX FOSTER, CNN ROYAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  A steady tide of mourners pouring into the ancient Westminster Hall. It looks and feels like   a pilgrimage. After hours waiting in line, a personal moment of thanks to the Queen. King Charles III with his son Prince William met them outside to the delight of those waiting.  PRINCE WILLIAM: It means an awful lot you are here (inaudible). Thank you so much. (Inaudible) FOSTER: They queued for hours and came from across the United Kingdom and the world. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thirty hours, no sleep.  FOSTER: Security was tight.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Phones down (inaudible) please.  FOSTER: There was a "phones down" rule as well. A royal source told CNN it was so people can enjoy the moment with their new king. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Just shake hands, enjoy it. Make the most of it. Yeah. FOSTER:  The Queen`s youngest son Prince Edward also approached the crowds, alongside his wife, the countess of Wessex. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Seventy years on the throne, she`s such a loved lady. That is just the right thing to do. I think that`s what a lot of people in   the lineup are feeling lots of different nations, colors and everything here it`s just lovely. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It`s a good morale. It`s a good day. Everyone`s feeling really, really positive. It`s a lovely atmosphere. FOSTER:  The king also made time to thank emergency responders ahead of the state funeral which police say will be their largest ever operation. And then a somber vigil for the Queen from her grandchildren that she helped bring up. Prince William and Harry both in ceremonial uniform. Harry   under special dispensation by the king, adorned with medals presented by the Queen to mark her many jubilees and also his military service. A show   of unity for the nation in mourning. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia time: Which of these happened September 17, 1787? The Boston Tea Party, the U.S. gaining independence, the U.S. Constitution signed, or the U.S. Constitution ratified? The U.S. Constitution was signed this day, now known as Constitution Day. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  And Saturday marked that holiday in the U.S. So all week, we, the people of CNN 10, in order to form a more perfect understanding, are going   to make your 10-second trivia Constitution-based. All right. Next up, every year, the United States wastes over a hundred billion pounds of food. Aidan Reilly was just a junior in college when he   founded Farmlink, a company that rescues food surplus and donates it to food banks. Let`s meet Aidan and hear what inspired him to start this journey with friends. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) AIDAN REILLY, CO-FOUNDER, FARMLINK PROJECT:  The fact is every year, we waste over a hundred billion pounds of food in the United States and 20   billion pounds of that is at the farm level, and that`s such a massive number, it`s hard to even comprehend. Farmers end up having to dump   perfectly good produce, but at the same time, people are hungry. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Next person in line come on down. REILLY:  Forty million Americans don`t know where their next meal is going to come from. So my name is Aidan Reilly. I`m a co-founder at the Farmlink Project. We are a non-profit that works with farms to rescue surplus produce that   they`re going to otherwise throw out and get it to food banks instead. When the pandemic happened, I was a junior in college. Like everybody else, I was watching the news and just seeing the next piece of terrible news   come in. I remember seeing just giant trash bins outside of the dorm rooms, it looked almost apocalyptic. Like an evacuation, it`s basically what it   was. I spent those first few weeks honestly in a state of depression, not to use that word lightly, but I was really, really low. All the plans I`d been   making progress were suddenly no longer viable. I think it`s the other alley, yeah. That`s the back alley. James Kanov and I we`ve been best friends since we`re about 11 years old. James is like this is one of the most significant things that might ever   happen in our lives, how do you want to look back on it? And I told him, shut up, man. I just want to watch TV and like sit. I just want to play   video games. But it got us thinking, we ended up seeing an article in "The New York Times" about farmers having to throw out their food, like mountains of   potatoes in someone`s backyard or milk just being dumped into the dirt. At the same time, food banks and the systems that were in place to feed people   were suddenly getting overwhelmed. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Two families in here. REILLY:  We would see lines of people miles and miles long, thousands of cars lining up to get a bag or a box of groceries. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (Inaudible) REILLY:  We went and talked to someone from West Side Food Bank, and they said, yeah, we are running out of food. We called up. My friend Will and   Ben Collier, we just said, why don`t we join forces? We were over here in Los Angeles and then Ben and Will were over in Connecticut calling food   banks, calling farms. We called a couple hundred. Eventually, we got on the phone with someone who said I have 13,000 eggs and you guys can have them. I just don`t have a way of getting it to you. Okay.  And we realized that really, the core issue at hand was one of time and transportation. We rented a U-haul drove out to where the eggs were being   stored, loaded them in the back, and so that was the very first drive was me swerving around on the 405 Freeway getting honked at with eggs bouncing   around in the back just trying to get them to the food bank so that we could, you know, feed a couple thousand people. We`re going to Westside Food Bank and then food (inaudible). When we were able to get that first truck, we said let`s do a second, then let`s do it third. And we`re back, baby. We have moved about 70 million pounds, which is around 60 million meals. We have worked with over a hundred farms in the United States and over 300   communities. We send boxes to communities around the United States at a rate of one and a half million pounds per week. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right. Some friendships you just never see coming. For "10 out of 10" today, we`re heading to a zoo in Chicago where an unusual friendship may be forming between two unlikely creatures, whether   they become buds, pals, kindred spirits or friends for life, that remains to be seen. Jeanne Moos has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Meet otter and ape. The otters were being introduced to their new habitat at the Brookfield Zoo in   Chicago, a habitat that`s home to small apes called gibbons. The gibbons live above in the treetops, the otters live below in the water. How does an otter break the ice with its neighbors? This ten-month-old pup went right up to Nubo (ph), an eight-year-old male gibbon, began sniffing his underarm area seemed especially intrigued by   Nubo`s (ph) feet. The curator of primates says this intermingling of species probably wouldn`t happen in the wild where other species represent   a threat. Otters are known as curious, intelligent and gregarious animals. Otters are tactile creatures, video of them holding hands at the Vancouver Aquarium   became a hit on the internet. A couple of aquariums even put holes in their plexiglass so that otters and humans can do some interspecies hand-holding   of their own. Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Otterly adorable, seeing them giving some loving like that. Shout out to all of you going out of your way to make someone smile today. And special shoutout to Evergreen Middle School in Hillsboro, Oregon. We hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one. I`m   Coy. Thanks for watching CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-09-20
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Happy Tuesday, everyone. Thanks for making us part of your day. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. The start of this week marks 50 days until the 2022 U.S. midterm elections. These elections are called midterms because they happen in the middle of a   president`s four-year term. Americans won`t be picking a president. They`ll be voting for the representatives in Congress and candidates for state and   local offices. Currently, members from President Joe Biden`s political party, the Democratic Party, control both the House of Representatives and the Senate.   Let`s take ten to break it all down. In the House, there are 435 voting members. Democrats currently hold 221 seats, Republicans, 212, with two current vacancies. Representatives are   elected every two years so every one of those seats is up for election in 2022. In the Senate, there are 100 members. Democrats control 50 seats, Republicans 50 as well, but Democrats are said to control the Senate   because the Democratic Vice President Kamala Harris has a tie-breaking vote. Senators are elected every six years, so about a third of these seats   are up for election this year. The House and Senate get a lot of attention because the balance of power there can affect the president`s ability to get legislative goals   accomplished. Historically lawmakers who are in the same party as the president tend to lose seats in the midterm elections regardless of who the   president is. So, the next question is, will Democrats hold on to their control of both the House and Senate in this year`s elections, or will the Republicans take   control of one or both chambers? We`ll find out November 8th when Americans head to the polls to cast their vote. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia time: Who is considered the father of the U.S. Constitution? Thomas Jefferson, John Adams, James Madison or James Monroe? James Madison is referred to as the father of the Constitution because of his pivotal role in the document`s drafting. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  In recognition of Constitution Day, we`ll be continuing our special constitution theme trivia all week. Next up, though, could an asteroid ever become a disasteroid? Several Hollywood movies have explored the idea of a mega sized space rock hitting   earth. But now, NASA is looking for potential ways to protect the planet and you know avoid that whole dinosaur situation. A new mission from NASA called DART or the Double Asteroid Redirection Test plans to deliberately smash the spacecraft into an asteroid`s moon and it`s   getting closer to its target. The mission is headed for a near-earth asteroid named Didymos and it`s moonlit, and the goal is to slam into the   moon and change the asteroid`s motion in space. If the mission is successful, it won`t be returning home. The spacecraft is scheduled to make   impact next Monday. Let`s learn more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  It`s a space story seen several times in the movies, like in the 1998 sci-fi film "Armageddon". BRUCE WILLIS, ACTOR:  The United States government just asked us to save the world. Anybody want to say no? HOLMES: An asteroid threatens Earth. The military, astronauts even oil rig drillers try to save mankind. Some cities don`t make it but in the end the   planet survives. A Hollywood ending which NASA is hoping to make a reality with its first planetary defense test mission. Scientists say they have identified the   kilometer wide asteroids like those shown in the blockbusters, and there are no dangers of them hitting Earth in the coming centuries. But NASA says it wants to study what could be done if an Earth threatening asteroid is discovered. NANCY CHABOT, DART COORDINATION LEAD:  These asteroids are not a threat to the Earth. They are not a danger to the Earth. They are not on a path to hit the Earth in the foreseeable future. That makes them appropriate target for a first   test. HOLMES: Traveling at a speed of 6.6 kilometers a second, DART will then deliberately crash into the moonlet to try to jolt it from its regular   orbit. Scientists back on Earth will monitor the collision using satellite imagery and ground base telescopes to see how much the moonlet changes   course. ANDY CHENG, DART INVESTIGATION TEAM LEAD:  If one day an asteroid is discovered on a collision course with Earth, and we have an idea how big   that asteroid is and how fast it`s coming and it will hit, that kind of information. Then we will have an idea how much momentum we need to make   that asteroid miss the Earth. HOLMES:  The targeted moonlet is a little larger than one of the pyramids in Egypt. NASA says there are 10,000 known asteroids that are just as big   or bigger that could potentially cause major regional damage if they ever hit the Earth. Although none of them are tracking this way. DART`s kamikaze mission could provide lifesaving data if anything ever does get too close. Michael Holmes, CNN. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next, we`re going to meet Joel Sartore, founder of the Photo Ark. He`s answering the call of wildlife conservation through photography. His   goal: take a photo of every animal in captivity around the world. He`s photographed a whopping 13,000 species from ants to elephants and he`s on a   mission to save him. This project has taken him years. Here he is. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JOEL SARTORE, FOUNDER, PHOTO ARK:  The world has a million and a half species described on it. We tend to give all the publicity of the tigers   and the gorillas and the giant pandas, but who cares about the minnow or the sparrow or the toad? I do. My name is Joel Sartore. I`m a photographer and fellow of National Geographic Society and founder of the Photo Ark. The Photo Ark is my 30-year effort to document every species in captivity around the world. We try to do portraits. Each animal on a black and white   background to eliminate distractions and allow you to look them in the eye and see that there`s great beauty there and intelligence and they`re worth   saving. They have a basic right to exist in my opinion like we do. Thirty or 40 percent of the amphibians could go away in the next years and a lot of the insects are already going away. We need those animals to   survive. One in three bites of food we eat comes from an insect, comes from a pollinator. So it`s just critically important that people pay attention   and as a photographer, I didn`t know what else to do. We`ve done studio portraits of about 12,500 species. That`s mammals and birds. It`s reptiles and amphibians. It`s fish and invertebrates. So   everything from ants to elephants. The goal is to get the world`s 20,000 to 25,000 that are in captivity while there`s still time. Many of these animals don`t even exist in the wild   anymore. They`re extinct in the wild. So, the only breeding populations, the seed stock, are in zoos. Beyond that, zoos are a great way for people to stay connected in nature. At the Lincoln Children`s Zoo, we got some interesting animals. We did   prehensile-tailed porcupine and ball python and tenrec and three-banded armadillo. But to see these animals actually alive and thriving and looking   at the camera and thinking, this is a big deal and it`s not done very often with smaller creatures. The majority of the animals we photograph have never been photographed well before. Many of them have not ever been photographed alive. My job is to   become a voice for all these animals, the small things that really keep the planet running. It`s really at our own peril if we ignore them. Who all do we have coming in here today for animals? My answering the call of conservation came the only way it could through photography, so the Photo Ark is my desperate attempt, last ditch attempt   to try to get the public just to pay attention. If we take the pressure off some spots, animals will come roaring back. We`re going to have this window close on us. We don`t have an infinite amount of time. Most of the species I photograph can be saved but we   actually have to do something about it. I get asked a lot what`s your favorite animal to photograph, and it`s the next one, it`s the next one. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For 10 out of 10 today, let`s check into the sky cruise hotel, a futuristic nuclear-powered flying hotel. For now, it`s just a concept but   the idea is that it would be piloted by artificial intelligence and if built, this hotel could be in the sky for months without landing, and it   could hold up to 5,000 passengers. The video you`re seeing here was based on an artist 3D model, but don`t start packing your bags yet. This version of air travel was a long way off   because the technology that this would run on doesn`t quite exist nor does a runway big enough. But the creator of the concept says it`s only a matter   of time. That`s about all we have time for for now. We hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one. But one last thing, Sulphur Springs High School, go Wildcats, shout out to our viewers in Sulphur Springs, Texas, for subscribing and leaving a   comment on our YouTube page. I`m Coy. Thanks for watching CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-09-21
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, everyone. Thank you for making us part of your day. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10 and we have an awesome show for   you. But we do have to start with the latest news out of Puerto Rico, where a catastrophic hurricane devastated the island. Hurricane Fiona caused   terrible rains, floods, mudslides and blackouts after it hit the region on Monday. The National Guard and emergency responders have rescued over 1,000   people, but certain parts of Puerto Rico are difficult for crews to get to.  When we recorded our show Tuesday, two people had died. The storm also hit the Dominican Republican where a million people are without running water.   As of Tuesday, Fiona has strengthened into a category 3 hurricane as it near Turks and Caicos Islands, where residents were bracing for potentially   life-threatening flash flooding.  Hurricane Fiona struck Puerto Rico nearly five years to the day after the area was devastated by Hurricane Maria. That storm caused thousands of   deaths, left billions of dollars in damage and some residents are still trying to rebuild. Puerto Ricans are citizens of the United States and are   entitled to the same federal assistance as every state. President Biden promised immediate federal aid and assistance toward the relief effort and   his administration is likely to offer long-term support as the area rebuilds now from both storms.  The Atlantic hurricane season lasts from June until November. And so far this year, it`s been relatively mild. Fiona is considered the first major   hurricane of the season. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LEYLA SANTIAGO, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Almost the entire island of Puerto Rico remains in the dark after Hurricane Fiona slam into the   southwestern coast of the island Sunday afternoon, pounding rainfall causing catastrophic mudslides and flooding. The storm coming just as parts   of the island were finally recovering from Hurricane Maria`s destruction five years ago.  JUAN MIGUEL GONZALEZ, RESIDENT AND BUSINESS OWNER:  It`s been rough. We`ve been struggling to get this neighborhood back from Maria. Everything was   destroyed, restaurants, houses, everything was destroyed. And we just -- we just -- not all the way back, but we just halfway back. A lot of people   more than Maria lost their houses now. Lost everything on their houses because the flooding.  SANTIAGO:  This is the barrio, the neighborhood where the National Guard had to come and rescue people. Still a lot of flooding. I can hear   generators powering the home. And it is still pouring down with rain. Neighbors looking out, wondering exactly what will come next, as hurricane   Fiona, the remnants of it, continue to demolish this area. The family rescued overnight now safely in a shelter.  She says this was worse than Maria.  She`s pointing out that they`ve already been under water for 24 hours and the rain is still coming down, so, she`s concerned about the 2,500 families   that she says are impacted by this here.  About 1,000 people rescued from flood waters. Hundreds more rescue efforts still under way, as emergency responders try to navigate through difficult   to reach areas. In Utuado, the interior part of the island, 25-year-old Jomar Rodriquez (ph) watched this bridge come apart in just minutes and   wash down the river.  On the west side of the island, rainfall swelling a river, the Guanajibo River in Hormigueros, surpassing its previous record high at 28.59 feet,   set during Hurricane Maria, now gauging to over 29 feet, the National Weather Service said. While a few hospitals have regained power, emergency   workers are racing to get electricity back to the island.  THOMAS VAN ESSEN, FORMER FEMA COORDINATOR FOR PUERTO RICO:  It takes so long to get things back up because so many of the systems are connected,   and some of the main lines go through the hills there, and if those main lines get damaged, they don`t have the ability to get the other sections up   and running.  SANTIAGO:  Sunday morning, President Biden approving an emergency declaration for Puerto Rico that authorizes all emergency measures needed,   including FEMA.  ANNE BINK, FEMA ASSOCIATE ADMINISTRATOR FOR RESPONSE AND RECOVERY:  There`s 300 responders on the ground for FEMA, working hand and glove with the   commonwealth and their emergency management structure.  (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: Where can you find the original copy of the U.S. Constitution? The National Archives, Fort Knox, The Library of Congress, or The Smithsonian Institution? The answer is the National Archives Museum in Washington, D.C. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Next up today, students are back in school. A New Jersey teacher Larry Abrams is on a mission, to transform the lives of students across the   state with his organization BookSmiles. The self-proclaimed bookworm believes that every student should have access to the transformative power   of books regardless of their school`s resources. The organization harvest, collects, sorts and hands out hundreds of thousands of gently used   children`s books in areas that Abrams calls book deserts. Let`s hear more about the nearly 1 million books this organization has distributed. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LARRY ABRAMS, NEW JERSEY TEACHER:  In a great forest, a little elephant is born. His name was Babar.  I`ve always been a bookworm. My favorite, "Mike Mulligan and His" Steam Shovel". I was a library kid. Books were my friends.  Now, this is my all-time favorite, he used his imagination to create anything he wanted. I certainly like the transformative experience of   reading of going into other worlds, experiencing other cultures. I am a high school English teacher. Where I currently teach, it`s an incredible district with really, really talented kids, but it`s a scrappy   working class town. There is poverty. We have a high ESL population.  So many of the kids are on. Their reading skills aren`t where they should be, by and large. In my ninth grade class, it`s very typical to have kids   reading at a fifth grade reading level, and if you`re struggling with reading, you`re going to be struggling with writing. I`d heard of food deserts but I`d never heard of book deserts, and it occurred to me that I teach in a book desert. I decided to put out a call   to all of my friends: hey, I`m collecting baby board books. A thousand books avalanched into my lap. I had more books than I knew what to do with   and I gave books away and I just saw the joy in these children`s faces. And then I got obsessed. And I then filled my classroom with books. And then my garage was filled with books. But then it got to the point where it   simply wasn`t sustainable and that`s when we got a nice donation to be able to move into the book bank. One teacher donated and we`re going to pass it along to other teachers who need it. We`ve outgrown our space and we are now in the process of moving into 4,300 square feet in a nearby town.  The name of my organization is BookSmiles. BookSmiles harvests, collects, sorts and distributes hundreds of thousands of gently used children`s   books. What we do is irrigate book deserts.  Very good stuff. This was a great hall.  We worked to level that playing field. Why shouldn`t every child have plenty of books in their home?  We get donations from kind-hearted people, book people, people who believe every child should have a library of their own.  I came up with the idea to paint trash cans to make them weather resistant and that`s the lure, that`s the bait for people to come with their book   donations and drop them in.  I am proud to say that we have distributed nearly one million books. Books spread light. They spread joy and that`s why it`s important for me to keep   this thing going because one light will light another light, and hopefully, other people in America will start seeing that this is not rocket science,   folks. This is just reclaiming used books and thinking of an efficient way to get them into the hands of children in need. We are just hitting the tip of this iceberg. There is so much work to do. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s "10 out of 10", we`re talking some bling-bling .Scientists discovered a mysterious diamond that came from outer space. The   stone called lonsdaleite came here on a meteorite. It`s harder and stronger than a regular diamond in the natural process through which scientists   believe it was formed could inspire a way to manufacture super durable materials. Now the question remains whether they can replicate the diamond   here on earth. One thing that can`t be replicated -- you. Did you know that today is World Gratitude Day and we are so grateful to all of you for sharing part of your   day with us?  We`re going to do a special shout-out now to Wahpeton High School in Wahpeton, North Dakota. We hope you and everyone watching around the world   shine bright like a space diamond today. I`m Coy Wire. Thanks for watching CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-09-22
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. It`s Thursday. Happy Friday eve to you. It`s your boy Coy and I`m thankful to be hanging out with you right   here this week on CNN 10. It`s time to say goodbye to summertime because today is officially the first day of fall, also called autumnal equinox. Let`s take 10 to break it   all down. During the vernal and autumnal equinoxes, the sun is directly over the equator, so day and night are considered to be the same length. If you   reside in the northern hemisphere, you know it is the start of fall, but folks down south of the equator, this equinox is actually the start of   spring. This is not to be confused with a solstice though. Those are in the summer and the winter and represent the longest and shortest days of the   year respectively. So when it comes to fall, you might be thinking about colder temperatures, pumpkin spice lattes, some football or fallen leaves. And speaking of   leaves, let`s take a minute to learn why they actually change color in the fall. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PEDRAM JAVAHERI, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  I want you think about leaves on a tree as essentially many solar panels. What they`re able to do is   fascinating. They are taking the sunlight in and through a process known as photosynthesis. They`re able to transfer the sun`s energy and create a   chemical known as chlorophyll. Now, chlorophyll is key because it gives the leaves its green colors during the long summer months, but beneath the surface, the leaves actually always   have the reds, the oranges, the yellows in place while chlorophyll is there, it`s there and it`s green. While it`s taken away in the shorter days   and shorter months of the autumn, now you`re releasing some of the true colors back to the surface. Of course, weather can play a role in this as well, especially in the vibrancy of it. When you have plenty of rainfall in the growing season or   in the spring season, you`re able to get plenty of good colors in early September, October and November. If you have extreme heat, extreme drought   in place, maybe a freeze early snowstorm or even strong winds, certainly that can do damage. The leaves will not be there for you to see them in   peak foliage. So hopefully, you get a chance to get out there this year and enjoy the fall colors. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Continuing our constitutional theme 10-second trivia this week: Which branch of the U.S. government is mentioned first in the Constitution? The executive, the judicial, or the legislative? Answer is legislative. The branch`s powers are laid out in Article 1 of the U.S. Constitution. Next up today, "Call to Earth" is looking at how to protect and conserve our planet by listening to it. Today, we`re headed to the rainforest   hinterlands of the Gold Coast in Queensland, Australia, where a scientist is using a network of sound recording devices and artificial intelligence   to track down an endangered and elusive species of bird. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DR. DANIELLA TEIXEIRA, RESEARCH FELLOW:  Behind us here is Purling Brook Falls, and on the other side of this escarpment, you can actually see how   the vegetation changes. BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  For the past seven years, the research of acoustic ecologists Dr. Daniella Teixeira has   focused on recording and analyzing sounds of Australia`s iconic black cockatoos. TEIXEIRA:  So, we actually have sound recorders planted in that forest over there. WEIR:  She says the birds face a multitude of threats, including habitat loss and climate change, and that they`re dwindling numbers low density and   cryptic nature make them really hard to find. TEIXEIRA:  A bit of a look. You`re much more likely to see this feeding sign than you are actually to see the birds themselves with the particular   project that we`re doing today, this is programmed to record every single day from sunrise to sunset. WEIR:  With all of those hours of recordings to analyze, she also relies heavily on artificial intelligence. TEIXEIRA:  What we`re looking at here is the detections of glossy black cockatoos at the machine learning has detected. That`s what they sound   like. WEIR:  With her research, Daniella says they now have a complete understanding of the bird`s vocalizations and can even train the AI to   identify the most exciting moments of a cockatoo`s life -- leaving the nest. TEIXEIRA:  Fledging is the moment when the baby bird leaves the nest, and I`ve been able to train algorithms to help me detect that automatically,   and that`s how we can actually detect breeding success and measure it in really big ways. WEIR:  About 1,800 kilometers northeast of Gold Coast sits Yourka Reserve, a remote partial land owned and managed by Bush Heritage Australia. Daniella also works as a researcher for this conservation-minded organization. TEIXEIRA:  Yourka is situated in what we consider to be a resilient landscape. So, it`s likely to offer refuge here from climate change in the   future for quite a large number of species. WEIR:  Just under a year ago, four new solar-powered recording stations were installed here and today, she is back to collect the data for the   first time. TEIXEIRA:  Look how nice and dry it is in there. WEIR:  The sensors are part of the Australian Acoustic Observatory, a world first continent-wide network consisting of approximately 360 devices that   record 24/7. TEIXEIRA:  The sound recorders that we`ve put out here on Yourka Reserve have been out there during times where the site was inaccessible so it   would have been collecting sound data when we weren`t even able to go out there. Hopefully, we find some threatened species some frogs and birds, and   we can actually get a bit of an idea of how the ecosystems are performing. WEIR:  Daniella believes that a noisy landscape is a healthy landscape and that her recordings what she calls digital fossils can be a key to   unlocking a new level of understanding about Australia`s natural world. TEIXEIRA:  There`s a whole world of activity happening right now that we would just be unaware of, that sound is the best way that we can connect to   that. But if we understand what those sounds mean, we can understand these species and what they need. (END VIDEOTAPE) WEIR:  For "10 out of 10" today, tips and tactics for greatness from two of the greatest athletes of all time. I recently caught up with Tampa Bay Buc   star QB Tom Brady and F1 star Lewis Hamilton to find out what`s pushed them to become the best time and time again. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WEIR:  You both are strikingly similar. I mean, you both wear helmets to work. You`re both very driven. You`re in the driver`s seat leading a team of people. You have to make split-second decisions with huge implications. What is something that you may see in each other, something innate within each of you that you have in common that has propelled you to greatness? LEWIS HAMILTON, SEVEN-TIME FORMULA ONE WORLD CHAMPION:  I think are probably the things we have in common is, is that that he got that focus,   that drive to be better. You know, that yes, better than you were yesterday. WIRE:  Right. HAMILTON:  Precision. WIRE:  There you go. Attention to detail. HAMILTON:  You`re a precision man. WEIR:  Tom, you appreciate this. Six months ago, I talked to Lewis, and you may not remember this, but before we started, there was a tiniest thread on   his pants, and he asked for some scissors to cut it. And it hit me in that moment, I was like, this is a man who pays attention to the details, like   how you do anything is how you do everything, right? TOM BRADY, SEVEN-TIME SUPER BOWL CHAMPION:  Yeah. WEIR:  Can you relate to that, when it comes to that precision Lewis was talking about? BRADY:  What I`ve really been inspired about Lewis over a period of time is, you know, you always see -- everyone thinks it`s just Lewis in the car,   but he recognizes it`s the -- everyone behind the scenes that are allowing him to be successful as well. And I`ve seen him when he wins, and he gives   credit to everyone, and I`ve seen when he loses you know how he doesn`t there`s never blame associated with it, too. So, I always feel like our best moments in life come when we`re facing, you know, our most difficult challenges. WEIR:  Average career is like three and a half years. I played nine years, have a titanium plate four screws in my neck. I thought that was good. This is going to this 23rd season, both of you though, just iconic high level of operation for decade more, right? So, what keeps you going? What   drives you? What is it? BRADY:  For me, it`s always just been trying to -- I always feel like no one cares about what you did in the past, you know? You have to be   motivated to be your best this year. Everyone has shown up to buy season tickets for this season, not for what happened last year, two seasons ago. And I feel like when people make the commitment to you, in the end, you want to fulfill that, you know, what they`re coming to see. You know people   want to come and see me do great. They want to see Lewis do great. You know, they followed their sports heroes and their favorite sports teams   because they want to see you, you know, the thrill of victory. And I feel like I want to -- when I make that commitment to play, it`s a kind of all-encompassing commitment. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  The greatest of all time, the GOATs. There`s some bad men. You all are the greatest, too. We love all the love we`re getting on the comment section at youtube.com/cnn10. So we`re showing some love back. Huge shout-out to Mannheim Middle School in Melrose Park, Illinois. Tomorrow is Fri-yay, can`t wait. Crush it today and be awesome. I`m Coy. Thanks for watching CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-09-23
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  We made it. Happy Friday, everyone. Let`s finish this week`s strong. Welcome to CNN 10. I`m Coy.  Lots to get to so let`s get to it.  First story takes us to the largest country in the world, where Russian President Vladimir Putin made an announcement Wednesday in regards to the   ongoing conflict that started in February when Russia invaded neighboring Ukraine. Since then, cities destroyed. Thousands have been killed, millions   more have been displaced. While the war is criticized by officials around the world President Putin maintains that he had no other choice but to begin what he calls a special   military operation in Ukraine. In recent weeks though, Ukraine`s military has recaptured large amounts of territory and that has changed many   people`s expectations of how this war might end. In response to those Ukrainian gains, President Putin on Wednesday mandated Russian citizens   join the Russian army prioritizing people with training and experience to join first. Following the announcement, there were a number of reactions across the country. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  I don`t understand what`s there to fight for. Why did we invade Ukraine? I`m against it. No, I`d rather go to   prison. I won`t fight for this government. UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  If I receive a draft notice, I`ll go to defend the honor of our country. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  More than people were detained across Russia on Wednesday for participating in nationwide anti-war protests and there were reports that   demand for flights out of the country increased. More now from Matthew Chance, senior international correspondent who takes us on the ground in Russia where we hear more from Russians as they watch   it all unfold. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  It`s a partial mobilization that risks fully mobilizing Russian opposition to   Ukraine war. In the wake of Putin`s escalation, there`s been already been scattered across the country. But it`s possible public sentiment will   further sour, as more Russians are told they will have to fight.  You always feel worried at moments like these, says Dennis, from Moscow`s. Because you have a wife and kids, I would not want to leave them. he adds,   in case something happens.  This is not a defensive war, says Nikolai. Nothing is threatening our territory. Calling for reservists now is unnecessary, he says.  For the Kremlin, there is a risk this indignation could erode Putin`s support even further.  As long as it stayed on the TV screens, not affecting their daily lives, many Russians have gone along with Putin`s Ukrainian disaster, what he   calls his special military operation.  But in the wake of dramatic military setbacks, all this has suddenly become very real, with the Russian leader announcing an immediate call up of   hundreds of thousands of men to bolster his depleted forces.  VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (through translated):  To protect our homeland, it sovereignty and its territorial integrity, to provide safety   for people in liberated territories, it is necessary to partially mobilize citizens.  CHANCE:  It just reservists and those with military experience at the moment. But there are concerns that that could be just the start.  (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Since the ratification of the bill of rights, how many additional amendments have been added to the constitution? Seven, 10, 15 or 17? Go on and give yourself a big pat on the back if you said 17. The most recent, the 27th Amendment, was passed in 1992. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  All right. Now, if you haven`t noticed in the couple short weeks I`ve been with you, I love taking our team to track down people who are   doing incredible things picking their brains, then sharing that awesomeness with you in hopes that it might help you on your journey. So come take a trip with me to Minnesota, the Land of Ten Thousand Lakes, to meet a high level adventurer named Emily Ford, inspiring others through   her outdoor education and advocacy.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WIRE (voice-over):  Minnesota, the Land of Ten Thousand Lakes, countless glacial lakes and streams dot the landscape here.  But today, I`m starting with the greatest lake, Superior, along the sparkling north shore. And I`m meeting up with local adventurer Emily Ford. When did you first know that the outdoors was meant for you? EMILY FORD, ADVENTURER:  I mean, from a young age, I would just go off in the woods all day long. WIRE:  We`re hitting up some iconic spots around Tettegouche State Park, 9,000 acres of pristine wilderness, miles of hiking trails and glorious   waterfalls. Oh, it`s a fighter, too. You got me. We`re like two little kids splashing in the baptism river, turning over rocks looking for slimy creatures. I was   having a blast but --   FORD:  The littlest dude in the world. WIRE:  -- I soon learned that for Emily, this was child`s play. FORD:  Do you think how cold it was this morning? It was negative 35 degrees. WIRE:  Her solo hikes of staggering endurance are legendary, with the help of her trusty sled dog Diggins (ph), she was the first female to complete   the grueling 1,200-mile Ice Age trail in winter. Trekking solo in sub-zero attempts through Wisconsin. FORD:  We`re still in the tent, got a little wet last night. WIRE:  Her journey is the subject of a documentary called "Breaking Trails". FORD:  There`s a place up ahead, hard to tell where the trail is, okay? WIRE:  And Emily hopes that through her achievements --   FORD:  It`s beautiful. WIRE:  -- she can inspire other men and women of color to discover the healing power of nature.  FORD:  This can be such a safe space out here, you know?  WIRE:  Yeah. FORD:  And like you too deserve to be -- like have your reset and experience all this stuff as well.  WIRE:  Emily wanted to show me another great place nearby perfect for a reset. So we drove a few minutes down the road. This is got to be one of America`s best kept secrets. FORD:  For sure? WIRE:  Yes. FORD:  I guess it`s a secret. It`s like not a secret for us who live here. WIRE:  Right? FORD:  I mean, look at this, would you be like, oh, this is the Midwest? WIRE:  No. I feel like we see a dragon flying over there. I mean --   FORD:  Like the Loch Ness monster coming through here somewhere. WIRE:  Yes. Palisade Head formed from lava over a billion years ago, it`s been whittled down by erosion and glacial collisions, leaving us a stunning perch over   Lake Superior.  But there is more to see. Three hundred feet of elevation drop and a short ride away, we found a sandy black beach.  This is not your cookie cutter beach.  This otherworldly stretch of shoreline is comprised of leftover mining debris that was washed ashore. Now, I read somewhere that this sand sticks to a magnet so I gave it a shot. FORD:  That`s awesome. WIRE:  Look at that. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For "10 out of 10" today, we`re bringing you a sweet story from a record-breaking ice cream shop in Arizona. The family-owned shop called   Snow Caps served 266 milkshake flavors in just over an hour, breaking a Guinness World Record for the most milkshake flavors on display.  They had to try as you can imagine all kinds of conventional combinations to reach that many. We`re talking peanut butter and onion ring. We`re   talking banana and chili.  How about orange and fish burger? No, thank you. They even had nacho- flavored, nacho average run of the milkshakes.  Now, special shout out to all of your teachers out there, we see you, inevitably, incredibly creative as they feed you your English, your social   studies, science and mathematics, and they choose to get you your news from CNN and that`s fantastic. Happy Fri-yay! Also special shout out to you Prep Milliones High School in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Go Wildcats! Thanks for subscribing and commenting at youtube.com/CNN10. I`m Coy Wire. We hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful   weekend. END     

Date: 2022-09-26
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Happy Monday, everyone. Welcome to CNN 10. I`m Coy, and I`m so grateful to be right here with you. Powerful show today so let`s get right to it. We start by taking you to the country of Iran. Last week, protests and rallies began in the Middle Eastern nation after a young woman died in the   custody of the government. Her name was Mahsa Amini. She was visiting the country from Kurdistan. Iranian authorities have said Amini died of natural   causes but some reports suggested that Amini`s death was a result of poor treatment.  Amini was arrested for allegedly violating Iran`s strict Islamic dress code requiring women to wear headscarves or hijabs. That requirement became   mandatory in public for Iranian women after the 1979 Islamic revolution. But a new order this year by the Iranian president added new restrictions   to that dress code. That order and the questions around Amini`s death have resulted in anti-government protests in at least 40 cities. On Friday, though, thousands of Iranian counterprotesters in support of the government also gathered in the capital of Tehran in a show of support for   authorities. The Iranian government is calling for peace in the country and says they`ll restrict the internet until calm is restored. More now from CNN`s   international correspondent Jomana Karadsheh who`s on the ground covering the latest across Iran.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Fury and defiance on the streets of dozens of Iranian cities, protests raging on a   scale not seen in years. At least 50 people have been killed, according to Iran human rights amidst signs a heavy-handed crackdown was coming.  The protests were sparked by the death of a 22-year-old woman in the custody of the notorious morality police who say they detained her for not   abiding by this strict Islamic dress code.  The government says it`s launched an investigation. They claim Mahsa Amini died of a heart attack. Her family blame her death on police brutality. Calls for accountability have turned into cries for freedoms this generation of Iranians have never known. Young women are rising up, leading   protests in unprecedented acts of defiance burning the head scarves they`ve been forced to wear for decades. On Friday, more ominous warnings from authorities. The Iranian army they say is ready to step in and deal with conspiracies of so-called enemies. As the country descends into darkness, with internet disruptions not seen since the 2019 protests, many now bracing for what the coming hours and   days may bring. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next up, hundreds of thousands of people on Canada`s eastern coastline are feeling the effects of Hurricane Fiona. The same storm that   brought devastation to parts of the Caribbean. Then made landfall in the province of Nova Scotia on Saturday. More than 400,000Canadians were   without power Saturday night.  The storm brought devastating wind and storm surge throughout Canada`s coastline. Violent waves sweeping homes away to sea while others were   destroyed by electrical fires. Authorities declared a state of emergency for some parts of the province of Newfoundland, the easternmost part of the   country.  Some families fled to shelter while others sheltered in place. The Canadian armed forces deployed to the region to help with the cleanup. But look at   this, the video you`re looking at now was captured from inside of Hurricane Fiona as it moved toward the Canadian coast.  CNN`s Rachel Crane takes us now to the company that`s trying to better understand hurricanes by sailing right into the eye of the storm.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RACHEL CRANE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Traditionally, scientists capture hurricane data by flying planes directly through them dropping   probes into the sky along the way. But in order to completely understand a storm, scientists say more data needs to be collected from the surface of   the ocean. RICHARD JENKINS, SAILDRONE, CEO:  What drives a hurricane`s strength is a transfer of heat and moisture from the ocean to the atmosphere. We don`t   quite understand the dynamics of how that works. CRANE:  In order to find out, Saildrone deployed five ships into the Atlantic Ocean and Caribbean. Areas where lots of hurricanes develop are   likely to hit land. They`re powered by the sun and wind, can stay out at sea for months at a time and are built to take a beating. JENKINS:  It`s really designed to get hit by a wave, tumble, submerge then come back up and carry on sailing. CRANE:  And I see a camera up top. JENKINS:  This hurricane mission is key to understand the spray, the foam on the water. So, we`re hoping that we can see with the camera, what the   water looks like. CRANE:  The drone`s sensors and cameras can send data and images in real time back to Saildrone headquarters. CHRIS MEINIG, NOAA PMEL:  These are measurements of wind, temperature, humidity, right at that interface level that may help the modelers   understand the fundamentals of hurricanes better. That`s never been done before. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia time: Which of these space rocks is also referred to as a minor planet? Meteoroid, asteroid, comet or meteorite? Asteroids are also called minor planets, and today, NASA plans to crash a spacecraft right into one. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Last week, we took a detailed look at the $324 million NASA spacecraft that`s scheduled to deliberately slam into an asteroid. It`s   called DART or Double Asteroid Redirection Test. And the plan is to study whether it would be able to possibly deflect a potential asteroid if one   were headed toward Earth. The collision is scheduled to happen tonight. And CNN`s Kristin Fisher visited with the DART mission control team ahead of the big moment. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ELENA ADAMS, DART MISSION SYSTEM ENGINEER:  It`s kind of what we all fear, right? What if there was an asteroid that was coming toward Earth, can you   really stop it? Can you really do something about it? And for the first time, our technology allows us to actually do something about it. KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE & DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  NASA is planning to ram a refrigerator-sized spacecraft called DART into an   asteroid named Dimorphos, which is roughly the size of the pyramid of Giza and poses no threat to planet Earth. The goal is to see if the impact will   push Dimorphos slightly off course. If it works, it means that this technique could be used to deflect a future killer asteroid that is headed   for Earth. BOBBY BRAUN, HOPKINS APPLIED PHYSICS LABORATORY:  This inaugural planetary defense test mission marks a major moment in human history. For the first   time ever, we will measurably change the orbit of a celestial body in the universe. FISHER:  Mission control is inside the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory in Maryland. What is this place going to be like on impact day or impact night I should say? ADAMS:  Oh, my goodness. It`s going to be filled to the brink with people. There`s going to be people in every single seat in the whole mission   operations center. But 44 people in here alone. FISHER:  And they`ll be able to watch the impact live as will everyone on earth, thanks to a camera that`s mounted on the spacecraft. These are live images. ADAMS:  Live images from DART right now. FISHER:  One of the most tense moments for the team will happen at 50 minutes to impact, when the spacecraft will switch its sights from a bigger   asteroid it`s pointed at now to a smaller second asteroid which is the real target. EVAN SMITH, DART DEPUTY MISSION SYSTEMS ENGINEER:  That`s a very, very sweaty time for us. So we have a lot of contingencies built right around   that 50-minute transition. We`re going to be watching the telemetry like hawks. Very scared, but excited.  ADAMS:  Then we`re going to have it get closer and closer and it`ll fill the field of view of our imager then we`re going to hit.  FISHER:  It`s a moment this team has been training for, for months. But even the rehearsals have been tense. ADAMS:  We`re just all one by one stood up with all of our headsets and all of us were intently watching the screens. Just watching the asteroid get   bigger and bigger, and my heart was actually palpitating because I was like this is not normal, right? It`s just a rehearsal. But yet, you really felt   like you were about to hit that asteroid for the first time. FISHER:  You`re really testing --   ADAMS:  We`re testing.  FISHER:  -- this technology that could potentially save all of humankind down the road. ADAMS:  Down the road, right. (END VIDEOTAPE) FISHER (on camera):  Now, we should know almost immediately on Monday night if the DART spacecraft successfully hit its target. But NASA says it`s   going to take a few weeks to determine if DART was successfully able to move that asteroid just a little bit off its current orbit.  Kristin Fisher, CNN, Washington. WIRE:  For today`s 10 out of 10, it`s a boat, it`s a plane, it`s an all- electric battery-powered boat plane? The sea glider is designed to float not just on water but also on a cushion of air, gliding just above the   water`s surface. The vehicle is meant to transport travelers and goods between coasts and islands.  This is just a quarter scale prototype but the co-founder of the company called Regent says a full-size ride gets a trial in 2024. So if you`re   going to go somewhere, you can`t go buy a car and you`d rather not go by boat or plane, maybe you`ll be sea gliding soon. How a boat that? Speaking of going by car and boats, why is it that we transport something by car, it`s called a shipment, but when we transport it by a ship, it`s   called cargo? I never got that one. Time now for a special shout-out to Mr. Williams` class at Tucker Middle School in Tucker, Georgia. Thanks to you and everyone choosing to get your   news right here at CNN 10. I`m Coy Wire. Have a wonderful Monday. We`ll see you tomorrow. END     

Date: 2022-09-27
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Hope you had a marvelous Monday. Like Miss Innes says from her 8th grade ELA class, it`s time to rise up and   make it a terrific Tuesday.  Welcome to CNN 10. I`m Coy. Grateful to be here with you. Lots to get to so let`s go. Last week, stocks worldwide reached a low not seen since 2020, a sign that the global economy is weakening. There are growing fears that this could   mean the start of a recession despite a strong job market.  Now, in economics a recession is a significant and widespread downturn in economic activity. And a popular rule of thumb for identifying a recession   is when there are two consecutive economic quarters of decline.  Forecasters are warning of serious economic hardship ahead. Banks are raising interest rates and that means money is more expensive to borrow for   both businesses and consumers. The Federal Reserve has raised rates in the hopes that consumers will spend less, which reduce the supply of money in   circulation. That would then lead to lower inflation and less economic activity. This is called cooling off the economy. Economists say ideally the market will have a growth recession or a prolonged period of small growth and rising unemployment. The pain of this   type of recession is still significant but it doesn`t pull the entire economy into a major decline the way a full-blown recession would. More now from CNN`s Brian Todd who explains what might happen to the global economy and how all of us might feel the effects. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  The stock market tumbles. Gas prices on average start to tick up after dropping for more than three   straight months. All coming with punishing interest rate hikes, the last one just announced by the Fed.  Its chairman saying he understands American sticker shot. JEROME POWELL, CHAIR, FEDERAL RESERVE:  We have got to get inflation behind us. I wish there were a painless way to do that.  TODD:  But for many Americans, recession jitters have set in.  DYLAN RATIGAN, ECONOMIC ANALYST:  American anxiety is high, obviously. It`s also self-fulfilling. So the more you think about it, the more you create   it. TODD:  While no one knows for sure if there will be a recession, some analysts believe if it comes it will likely happen sometime next year as   the fallout from rising interest rates starts to affect American spending patterns. But for some, it feels like recession is already here.  Analyst Dylan Ratigan says the housing market is the factor which could have the biggest psychological effect on Americans and the news on that   front isn`t good. Mortgage rates continue to climb. More people are being priced out of the housing market, and home sales are declining. RATIGAN:  That creates a slowdown in how people feel which changes their behavior relative to travel, restaurant, shopping, under expressions of   economic confidence. TODD:  Another contributor to the recession jitters, prices at the pump.  MARK ZANDI, CHIEF ECONONIST, MOODY`S ANALYTICS:  Nothing is more important to the collective psyche into our perceptions of our own finances and the   economy`s performance than how much it costs us to fill our gasoline tank. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Now, as we speak, a major hurricane is causing urgent evacuations in places not used to getting hit directly by a hurricane. When we produced   this show, it was a category one storm but it was expected to rapidly intensify possibly to a category 4 storm over the next couple of days.  Hurricane Ian is anticipated to cross over Cuba and make landfall on the west coast of Florida and the Florida Panhandle by midday Thursday. But   there`s a lot of uncertainty about the hurricane`s track and its intensity. Governor Ron DeSantis has declared a state of emergency for the entire fair   state of Florida with storm conditions, quote, projected to constitute a major disaster, unquote.  While all of Florida may feel some effects from the storm, the Tampa area could get its first direct hit from a hurricane since 1921. The mayor of   Tampa telling residents, if you can leave, leave now. Damaging winds and storm surge flooding would be the biggest concerns. Hurricane Ian is the   fifth hurricane of the Atlantic season. CNN meteorologist Jennifer Gray tells us how these storms get their names. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JENNIFER GRAY, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Andrew, Katrina Harvey, Irma -- these are some hurricane names most of us will never forget. But naming   hurricanes has taken some trial and error, and some of the rules are still changing.  In the early days, military meteorologists used to name storms after their wives and girlfriends, but none of these names were made public. Then in   1950, everything changed. The U.S. weather bureau started naming storms. They began using the World War II phonic alphabet -- Abel, Baker, Charlie,   Dog, Easy.  But this created confusion as well because every year, the storms were named the same. In 1953, the U.S. started using only female names. Then in   1979, we started alternating between men and women and we recycle that list every six years. In the Atlantic Basin, now, we mostly use English, Spanish and French names. Storms are given short distinctive names to help communication and   avoid confusion. You can`t request a storm to be named after you and there are no storm names that begin with Q, U, X, Y or Z, frankly because there   just aren`t many names that start with those letters.  The naming process is handled by the United Nations World Meteorological Organization. A storm name will be retired if it`s too costly, deadly or   too inappropriate to be used again. In fact from 1953 to 2020, there have been 93 storm names retired, and just like each individual name, each storm   has its own personality. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia time: Roughly one-third of the earth`s land is covered by what continent?  Africa, Asia, North America or Europe? If you said Asia, raise your hand. It`s the world`s largest continent, home to over 4.6 billion people. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  After two and a half years of tight pandemic restrictions, some parts of Asia are beginning to reopen borders.  Japan, for example, is fully opening its doors to tourists on October 11th. Hong Kong and Taiwan are abandoning their mandatory hotel quarantine   policies. So far, mainland China continues to enforce its zero COVID policy, but there are some signs that those rules could change, too. Let`s take a trip to Japan to get the full story from CNN international correspondent Michael Holmes. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Soon, these streets of Tokyo could be filled with more visitors to the city as Japan   and many other places in Asia lift many of their remaining COVID-19 restrictions, in some cases, in place for more than two and a half years.  As of October 11, Japan will fully open to all tourists, not just those on guided tours or people who booked through registered travel agencies, who   started trickling in over the summer. It`s a sigh of relief for businesses, who rely on the income generated by the visitors. Across Asia, coronavirus measures are being relaxed if not dropped to keep up with other countries who have already reopened, with the hope of   reviving economies battered by the pandemic. The kingdom of Bhutan welcomed back a handful of tourists on Friday, the first in more than two years. But that`s now an even more expensive trip   for visitors, who will be charged a fee of $200 per night per person instead of the $65 fee in place for three decades. Taiwan also following the trend by ending its mandatory COVID-19 quarantine for international travelers in mid-October. And as of Monday, people arriving in Hong Kong will no longer have to undergo mandatory hotel quarantines, although they will have to self-   monitor for three days. JEMMA ARMSTARON, HONG KONG RESIDENT/STUDENT:  I was pretty happy because now my family can visit me and like, you know, that -- I haven`t seen them   in so long. So it would be great for them to come and visit finally. HOLMES:  It`s been a slow, staggered reopening for some Asian countries. But with the increased vaccination rates and lower numbers of deaths and   hospitalizations from COVID, the price of isolation just became too steep. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right. Warning, our story today that gets a out of is cuteness overload. Check out this baby elephant at the famous Whipsnade Zoo in   Bedfordshire, England, who was just named Nang Paya, the Thai word for queen. Is this the cutest darn thing you`ve ever seen? Named after the late Queen Elizabeth II -- get this -- the queen once fed a banana to the calf`s mom on a trip to that zoo.  Now, here`s a totally irrelephant fun fact for you. Did you know that when baby elephants are born, they`re about three feet tall, weigh 265 pounds,   they can stand within minutes and walk within an hour? Elephant-astic.  Also fantastic, special shout out to Mrs. Nichols` government class at Chaparral High School in Scottsdale, Arizona. Thanks for subscribing and   commenting at youtube.com/CNN10. I`m Coy Wire. Have a wonderful one. Now go and make someone smile today. END     

Date: 2022-09-28
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Wonderful Wednesday to you. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we`ve got a rendezvous with the news so let`s go. Hurricane Ian made landfall in Cuba early Tuesday morning leaving parts of the island country without power. At the time of the show`s recording,   storm preparations had begun in Florida where FEMA, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, was deployed. The latest radar track showed the storm was expected to hit the west coast of the state, posing a dangerous threat to Tampa and Fort Myers. The   government urging some residents in coastal areas to evacuate as dangerous storm surges are expected to hit the area. A tornado watch was also issued for south Florida on Tuesday morning where starting Wednesday flooding and significant power loss are expected. If you`re in the impact zone, here are a few tips: stay inside, protect all windows and doors and make sure to have food, water and emergency   preparedness tools like first aid kits on hand. The last major hurricane to make landfall in Florida was a category 5 storm Hurricane Michael in 2018. Let`s break down Hurricane Ian by the numbers as they stood Tuesday evening. Category 3 storm, winds of about 135 miles per hour, storm surge   between 8 to 10 feet. The hurricane is expected to dump at least two to three months` worth of rainfall by Friday. That`s 12 to 24 inches of rain   with 24 inches in Tampa and West Central Florida. Eight million people live in the hurricane warning zone. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RYAN YOUNG, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  It`s been a century since the Tampa area of South Florida has been directly hit by a hurricane, and now,   Hurricane Ian could change history. BARRY BURTON, PINELLAS COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR:  Everyone and I mean everyone in Pinellas County will witness some degree of impact from the storm. YOUNG:  Nearly 170,000 people have already been ordered to evacuate in the Tampa area alone, and schools and universities announcing closures in   preparation for the storm and set up as emergency shelters. JANE CASTOR, TAMPA MAYOR:  We are looking at the possibility of having 10- to-15-foot storm surge and clearly, that would be very devastating for our community. UNIDENTIFIED MALE;  That`s five. YOUNG:  Residents here taking this seriously. MIKE VAN TEEFFELEN, ST. PETERSBURG RESIDENT:  Yeah. I wasn`t really worried about it yesterday, but today, you know, you start making your preparations   and doing what you`ve got to do, right? Tie everything down, secure your cars. Make sure you`ve got enough food and water at the house and that`s   all you can do. ARTHUR GARCIA, FLORIDA RESIDENT:  I think we`re taking it pretty seriously. Up until yesterday we were thinking it was going to hit Panama City or   something like that, but right now, I think it`s -- it`s real. YOUNG:  The Tampa area of Florida more vulnerable than other parts of Florida. GARY MITCHUM, ASSOCIATE DEAN, UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH FLORIDA COLLEGE OF MARINE SCIENCE:  The area around Tampa Bay, there`s just a lot of low-lying areas,   compounded with a lot of development. So, we have a large population that`s built up since the last hurricane, and it`s built up in low-lying areas.   So, we have a lot of exposure, a lot of risk. GOV. RON DESANTIS (R), FLORIDA:  The Florida National Guard has activated 5,000 Florida guardsmen as well as 2,000 additional guardsmen from   Tennessee, Georgia, and North Carolina. YOUNG:  Every official here with dire warnings to prepare for the very worst. CASTOR:  This is going to be a storm like we have not seen in the past. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next, we follow up on a story we`ve been tracking with you, NASA`s DART mission or Double Asteroid Redirection Test. It hit its target. The   mission which launched months ago has been called humanity`s first test of planetary defense. And the spacecraft successfully slammed into an   asteroid, one of more than 27,000 near-earth asteroids consisting of all shapes and sizes. More now from CNN space and defense correspondent Kristin Fisher who was there at mission control when history was made. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDETN:  Well, there were big cheers at the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory, where I am right   now, the place that is responsible for building and operating the DART spacecraft when it successfully hit its target, the dimorphos asteroid on   Monday night. This spacecraft had been traveling in space at about 14,000 miles per hour, four miles per second, for 10 months and in the vastness of outer space.   This spacecraft was able to successfully hit an asteroid that`s about the size of the pyramid of Giza. And this spacecraft is not that big, about the size of a -- of a vending machine. So really just an incredible feat that NASA was able to accomplish   just that. But the big question, of course, is, was NASA able to successfully push that asteroid dimorphos just a little bit off its current   trajectory? And the reason that`s so important is because this asteroid poses no threat to Planet Earth whatsoever, but the reason this is important is if there   ever were a potential killer asteroid in the future bound to wipe out all of life on planet earth, this type of technology, this type of maneuver   could potentially save all of us, all life on the planet. And so, this was NASA`s first ever planetary defense test mission. We know half of it was successful. Now we have to wait a few days, perhaps even   weeks, before we`ll know if it was successfully able to bump this asteroid off course. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  It`s a big world out here. Lots of humans, lots of animals and lots of -- ants. How many? Well, thanks to a new study, we`re closer to the   answer. The study published in a scientific journal Monday says there are about 20 quadrillion ants at any given time. That`s a 20 with 15 zeros after it. For   each human on earth, there`s an estimated 2.5 million ants. Ants are vital to the ecosystem, spreading seeds, supporting the food chain as both predators and prey. Fifteen thousand seven hundred species and subspecies, the total mass of every ant on the planet exceeds that of every bird and mammal combined.   That`s a lot of bugs, and that`s random. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Next up, we`re introducing you to a CNN hero on a mission to fight hunger across this community. Bobby Wilson, an urban farmer in the Metro Atlanta area is helping people get access to locally grown food. But not only that, since 2009, he`s   taught thousands of people how to plant and grow their own food. Meet now, Mr. Bobby Wilson. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BOBBY WILSON, METRO ATLANTA URBAN FARM:  Come on out here little boys and girls. There is a high demand for agriculture in the Metro Atlanta area. Most of the people in this neighborhood don`t have access to fruits and vegetables   that they can readily get on a regular basis. I`m Bobby Wilson here in the great state of Georgia. My main goals and objective is to make sure that marginalized and unnecessary communities   have access to locally grown foods that`s free of chemicals. This is our secret right here, what I call black gold. We have turned five acres of land right here in the heart of the city into a green oasis that really impact the quality of life of people that lives   around here and visit with us. On an average, we are growing four to five tons of food per year. We`re teaching people how to grow their own food on small tracks of land. So, you   want to evenly spread them out. With the price of food right now, you can probably grow about twenty-five hundred dollars` worth of food per year. It does kind of smell sweet. We got to get our young people excited about agriculture. We work with the seniors. We work with kids that`s coming out of the juvenile justice court   system. And we have a training program through our community garden, but you can also learn from other community gardeners. I want folks to see farming in a totally different light and really sends a message to them, without a farmer, you probably wouldn`t have anything to   eat tonight for supper. We are changing the dynamics of the way people think about food, the way people use food. This work is changing people`s lives. Thank you so much for coming. Changing society as a whole. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right. Today`s "10 out of 10" is sure to get your seal of approval. This fine fellow had been on the loose in Beverly, Massachusetts,   for days until he turned himself in to police? That`s one of the silliest things I`ve ever heard. But here he is, video of him waddling up to the police station. Locals nicknamed him Schubert after spotting him in a pond last week. But a group   of officers sealed the deal and safely captured him, sent him off for observation and then released him back into the wild. Finally, our favorite part of the day. We want to give a special shout out to Miss Venical`s (ph) class at Cincinnati College Preparatory Academy in   Cincinnati, Ohio. We hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one. I`m Coy Wire. Thanks for watching CNN 10. We`ll see you   later. END     

Date: 2022-09-29
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Hope your Thursday is off to a fantastic start. Happy Friday eve. I`m Coy Wire, here for you on CNN 10.  Hurricane Ian, a powerful storm that hit Cuba earlier this week, grew to a category 4 storm before making landfall on Florida`s west coast.  When we recorded this show, Ian was just shy of a category 5 hurricane. This level of storm brings winds of over 150 miles per hour and can cause   catastrophic storm surges, creating an abnormal rise of water levels. The scale for hurricanes as seen in this animation is based on a one to five   rating dependent on a hurricane`s maximum sustained wind speed.  Officials warned it was too late to evacuate in some places. Ian already caused severe flooding in the Florida Keys and widespread power outages   were expected across the state. Boats in some areas are ready to deliver supplies and make rescues if necessary.  Hurricane Ian is one of the most powerful storms to threaten the United States in decades. Only two category five storms have ever made landfall in   the U.S. in the last 30 years, both in Florida. Millions of residents are under evacuation orders or advisories in parts of coastal Florida. We`ll   have reporters there for you all week long to keep you updated on the storm and recovery efforts. CNN meteorologist Jennifer Gray now explaining more about these powerful forces of nature. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JENNIFER GRAY, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Tropical systems come in all shapes and sizes. You have tropical depressions, tropical storms. And once it is strong enough to become a hurricane, you have five categories, with category five being the strongest. SUBTITLE: Hurricanes: What you should know. GRAY:  The states most frequently hit by a hurricane, Florida, Louisiana and Texas. But as much as we know about hurricanes, forecasting them is still a challenge. Just as we name each storm, each storm has its own personality,   like Katrina in 2005, which intensified rapidly overnight, going from a category three to a category five. It became the fourth most intense   hurricane on record as of that time. And the forecast track can change dramatically, like Erica in 2015, or a system that can be viewed as relatively weak, like a tropical storm could   end up like Tropical Storm Allison in 2001. The remnants of the storm stalled over Southeast Texas, dumping 35 inches of rain over Houston in   just five days. The storm became the first non-hurricane to have its name retired. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia time: What sea separates northern Africa and Europe? North, Mediterranean, Caspian or Baltic? The Mediterranean Sea is your correct answer. Let`s go there now where researchers are rummaging through some really cool stuff. (END VIDEO CLIP) (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SUBTITLE:  An ancient shipwreck was found off the coast of Israel more than 1,200 years after it sank. DEVORAH CVIKEL, NAUTICAL ARCHAEOLOGIST:  We have a fish sauce. We have grapes or resins, we don`t know. Olives, different kinds of olives, dates,   figs, all the Mediterranean diets stored and well-preserved.  SUBTITLE:  Artifacts found on the ship show it had docked in Cyprus, Egypt, and possibly as far as the North African coast.  CVIKEL:  It`s unique because -- first, because of its size. It is about 20 meters long and five meters big, which is the largest shipwreck we`ve ever   excavated and also because of its dating. It`s dated between the 7th and the 8th century CE, which is the shift between the Byzantine and Islamic   rule in the area. SUBTITLE:  The ship snake after the Islamic conquest of the Holy Land, which historians previously believed ended trade with the rest of the   Mediterranean.  CVIKEL:  If we look at the history books, they usually tell us that in this shift after the decline of the Byzantine rule in this area and the rise of   the Islamic rule, then commerce almost stopped. SUBTITLE:  If researchers cannot find a place to display the entire ship to the public, they will cover it with sand and leave it at the bottom of the   sea.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  In the emerging field of bioacoustics, scientists are looking at how to protect and conserve our planet by listening to it.  Today, "The Call to Earth" series is headed to a biodiversity hot spot in India where a local researcher has developed a device to alleviate the   growing issue of human elephant conflict. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BILL WEIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Sunset on the border of Kaziranga National Park in northeast India. And former computer engineer   Seema Lokhandwala stands in the field of a neighboring village scanning the edge of the forest for one of her favorite animals. SEEMA LOKHANDWALA, FOUNDER, ELEPHANT ACCOUNTICS PROJECT:  I went to Nepal as a very young kid, along with my uncle on, and saw elephants for the   first time, we interacted with them, saw them. That itself fascinated me that there is this huge, intelligent animal and that we know very little about. I started watching documentaries and what fascinated me about elephants is just the way they communicate. WEIR:  That childhood passion never went away. And now as a conservation scientist, she`s less interested in getting closer to the animal as she   isn`t keeping them away. LOKHANDWALA:  Human elephant conflict is a big issue in India. WEIR:  India has the largest population of wild Asian elephants around 26,000. They are an endangered species and each year, approximately 500   people and 80 to 100 elephants die and the ongoing struggle to coexist. Here in Assam, deforestation has led to a staggering loss of habitat, driving the elephants out of the forest more often just looking for a meal. LOKHANDWALA:  Eighty percent of the people in this area have agriculture as their primary occupation. And because of this, there is a lot of human   elephant conflict. WEIR:  Determined to find a solution for people and pachyderms to live in harmony, Seema founded the Elephant Acoustics Project. LOKHANDWALA:  The idea is to understand Asian elephant communications. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  They are capable of high frequency record. LOKHANDWALA:  And use acoustics as a medium to mitigate human elephant conflict. WEIR:  Her teams of likeminded engineers are currently developing the elephant call detector. LOKHANDWALA:  What is the frequency that you know about these microphones? WEIR:  Using a combination of hardware, a vocalization database, artificial intelligence and local cell networks, the devices designed to detect an   elephant sound, alert local officials of its presence and then make the right kind of noise to hopefully send the animal in a different direction. LOKHANDWALA:  We`re trying to use a combination of all the natural sounds that are occurring in the elephant landscape. We are trying to use bee   sounds, tiger calls and leopard calls which the elephants don`t like. And we will try to do it in a round robin fashion that so that the elephants don`t get adapted to the sounds. In Assam, there are about 229   human deaths that happened in last three years because of some reasons related to elephants. So we are trying to reduce these deaths. WEIR:  She has conducted an estimated 500 interviews and finds that the majority of people are eager for a solution like the elephant call   detector. LOKHANDWALA:  I have been working in the Kaziranga Karbi Anglong landscape since 2015. And with any technology, most of the people are a little   apprehensive in the beginning, but then they started working with the community understanding the language speaking in the language, I think   they`ve been very, very accepting of new ideas and how they can implement it. (END VIDEOTAPE) WEIR:  All right. Today`s "10 out of 10", it`s like Halloween come early in the French Alps -- no treats, just tricks. Hang gliders, paragliders and   all kinds of high flyers went soaring through the air for a wide range of prizes.  Thousands of people gathering for La Coupe Icare free-flying festival. Pilots try to outdo each other by wearing the wackiest costumes they can.   One contestant said though the goal isn`t to win we`re just trying to make a beautiful structure, make the kids laugh and make the elderly people   dream. From the French Alps to Ohio. Oxford, Ohio, and Talawanda High School, you get our shout out for the day.  And you bring us our fun fact for the day. Did you know Ohio is sometimes called the mother of modern presidents? Ohio is the birthplace of seven   U.S. presidents.  Ohio, we hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one. I`m Coy Wire. Thanks for watching CNN 10.   END     

Date: 2022-09-30
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Happy Friday, everyone. We made it to the weekend. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. Let`s finish this week`s strong. We start with our continuing coverage of Hurricane Ian which hit Florida just shy of a category storm this week.  When daylight broke on Thursday, the first clear signs of destruction in Florida were revealed. Millions of people were without power. The hurricane   dumped up to a foot of rain on some cities as it barreled across the Florida peninsula and it may end up setting flooding records as one of the   worst storms to ever hit the state. Florida Governor Ron DeSantis called it a 500-year flood event.  Water and downed power lines is not a good combination, so many city streets were impossible to navigate. Roofs were torn off by the wind. Some   buildings even collapsed. Emergency responders assisted with major rescue efforts, including pulling people from roofs, flooded homes and submerged vehicles across the state.   And Ian`s path of destruction is not over. The storm dropped heavy rain on central and northeast Florida throughout Thursday and is expected to   strengthen to a category one hurricane and make a second landfall in South Carolina today. We`ll continue to monitor the storm and keep you updated when our show resumes on Monday. Let`s go now to CNN anchor John Berman who`s there for us in Florida to show some of the aftermath of Hurricane Ian. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR, "NEW DAY" (voice-over): Water is everywhere. That`s the message from the sheriff of Collier County.  Hurricane Ian left the streets in Naples submerged. Downed power lines made the roads treacherous.  Members of the Naples Fire Department not spared. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Now we have a truck issue and the guys are pushing the truck out of the bay. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Because why, Chief? UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The truck was going to catch on fire because it`s smoking and we didn`t want the station to burn down. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Are you guys okay? BERMAN: Rescue efforts already underway. Emergency crews helping stranded residents in chess deep flood waters. The Naples Fire Department even seen   hitching a ride on jet skis to get those in need. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And it`s a dangerous situation. We`ve already had several citizens that have just had to be retrieved. BERMAN: And in Fort Myers, water as far as the eye can see, with homes and buildings almost completely underwater. Heavy winds blew through the city.   The storm surge flooded the streets with an abandoned truck seen underwater.  This time lapse video shows flood waters pouring onto the city streets. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We want to make sure that they do not venture out. It`s not safe to go out, but we will come to them as soon as possible. But be   encouraged, if they`re still here. If they`re able to, you know, just be able to think for a little bit and thank the lucky stars that they`re still   here their family`s still here, just wait for us. We`re coming for you. Be encouraged, do not go out.  BERMAN: In Tampa, this traffic light fell to the ground during the storm. The western coast of Florida saw huge waves heavy winds and lots and lots   of rain as Hurricane Ian barreled through the region.  On Cape Coral, a lanai was seen flying from the hurricane force winds.  On Pine Island, a storm chaser captured these huge waves hitting the island, and while driving saw this power flash.  In Port Charlotte, a hospital flooded leaving doctors and personnel wading through flooded hallways. We had about 160 patients in-house and our roof   blew off, part of the roof on the ICU, according to the ICU. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Ten-second trivia time: What`s the name given to the hypothetical immersive virtual world existing on the internet? Second life, MySpace, Metaverse, or 6G? Put your 3D headsets on, the correct answer is Metaverse. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: In 2022, approximately 66 percent of Americans own their own home and we`re talking about apartments, condos, houses, townhouses, houseboats, you   name it. But there`s another type of property on the market, digital property. Sales shot up in 2021, generating more than half a billion   dollars. Global businesses like Samsung and Adidas have already invested in virtual land and by 2030, it`s estimated that the Metaverse could generate   between $4 trillion and $5 trillion. But what`s the point of having a living room you can`t sit in or a kitchen where you can`t cook. For now, the Metaverse is just an idea. Here`s Anna Stewart with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANNA STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): This is Decentraland, it`s just one of the hundreds of metaverse platforms in existence.  After Facebook changed their name to Meta in 2021, digital worlds like this experience a land boom. One property here even sold for $2.4 million. Meeting me at the platform`s trade center is Sam Huber, the CEO of LandVault. Sam, thank you so much for joining us.  So this is where I can buy myself some real estate. SAM HUBER, CEO, LANDVAULT: This is the e-world`s (ph) marketplace. STEWART (voice-over): His company buys, builds and rents out property to brands in the metaverse. They say they own hundreds of real estate plots   and more than a dozen worlds. Some of that land Sam says he`s rented out for $60,000 a month. Do brands really know, though, what the value is yet in the metaverse? It`s in the nascent stages really. Are they wasting their money investing in a   space that maybe don`t fully understand yet? HUBER: No, definitely not. I mean, you know, history has proven that being early, testing and learning is definitely a way to capture disproportionate   advantage. STEWART: Global businesses like Samsung and Adidas to name a couple say they`ve already invested in virtual land. Building experiences to engage   with the estimated two billion people who will access the metaverse daily by 2026. HUBER: You need to start speaking the language of those people who have been basically born with the internet. They don`t really watch TV, instead   they play games. So, there are metaverse, you know, native. They are the citizens of the metaverse. And brands to date needs to start understanding   that. Otherwise, they are a big risk of becoming a relevant. STEWART: There are companies around the world heeding Sam`s advice. Like Ali Sajwani`s company DAMAC. ALI SAJWANI, DAMAC: This is our latest sales center, 63rd floor of Econ City. STEWART: Headquartered in Dubai, they say that the largest private property developer in the Middle East.  For Ali, the metaverse is an opportunity to help boost sales of his physical properties around the world. When a customer buys an apartment or   a home from DAMAC, they`ll receive the digital version of it as well. SAJWANI: You can chat with your neighbors, you can meet with them online. We`ll have some online games, so we`re creating a sense of community in   essence. STEWART: Physical or virtual, that community comes at a price. SAJWANI: The penthouse is over $30 million U.S. dollars. STEWART: $30 million U.S. dollars, can I just have the virtual version? SAJWANI: Just because you know me. STEWART: Anna Stewart, CNN, Dubai. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: For today`s `10 out of 10", I want to introduce you to Cassie. Cassie is now officially the Guinness World record holder for fastest robot on two   legs. Not yet blazing, finishing the 100 meter dash in 24 seconds, but it`s still amazing. This half a human, half a Jurassic velociraptor looking   robot was built with a million dollar grant from the U.S. Department of Defense by the robotics program at Oregon State University. Cassie, which operates through machine learning, also completed a 5K on campus and can go up and down stairs. This technology could be used in the   future to deliver packages or work in disaster scenarios. We`re already seeing robots working in factories, making food in restaurants. Soon we   could see all kinds of things being done by robots. Now, before we go, you made it to Friday. Good job and special shout out to South Middle School in Braintree, Massachusetts. We hope you and everyone   watching around the world have a wonderful weekend.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. Remember, do the little things that make the world a better place.  END     

Date: 2022-10-03
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Hope you had a great weekend. I`m Coy Wire. It`s officially October, National Book Month, and how interesting that you can`t spell book without the "boo". Halloween`s just around the corner,   too. Happy to have you here with us at CNN 10. Important show for you today, so let`s get started. One of the worst storms in United States history battered Florida in the Carolinas last week. Hurricane Ian pummeled the west coast of Florida just   shy of a category 5 hurricane with wind speeds of 150 miles per hour. Over the weekend, nearly 1 million people were without power and many   communities in Florida didn`t have access to safe drinking water. The president and first lady are headed to the state this week to assess the   recovery efforts.  Here`s what we know so far. Days after the hurricane slammed into the state, residents are still discovering the damage created by the record   high storm surge intense winds and catastrophic flooding. The hurricane left some homes and businesses flattened and other parts of the state   underwater in a trail of destruction. Gasoline is still in short supply as cars try to exit for drier land. Many people who didn`t evacuate in time   had to be rescued by boat as their homes were left flooded.  Rescue crews evacuated more than one thousand people from flooded areas in southwest and central Florida, many through challenging post-storm   conditions. The number of fatalities from the storm is still unknown but at least 74 people have died in Florida and the Carolinas with more fatalities expected   in the coming days. Unfortunately, it`s typical in the wake of a disaster for the death toll to rise because as flood waters recede, search teams are   able to access areas previously cut off by dangerous storm conditions. The storm has left areas of Florida unrecognizable and damage is expected to   take months to rebuild. Some areas will never be the same again. More now from CNN correspondent Bill Weir who introduces us to the Cajun Navy and Project Dynamo groups who are helping with the rescue efforts. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT:  We see it after every hurricane that after the storm passes and the sun comes out, the shock and   anguish really begins for so many people as they assess their losses. But in that moment, I`d like to go back to the best tip I`ve ever heard about   covering these disasters. It came from Mr. Rogers who taught my kids that in these horrifying moments, look for the helpers. (voice-over):  After Ian`s violent visit, this is what`s left of the causeway bridge from mainland Florida to Sanibel Island, and this is the   now impassable bridge to Pine Island. So for residents of both boats and helicopters are the only exit options and while Coast Guard Blackhawks and Chinooks buzzed over the barrier   islands on the grim day after, two of the only boats in this part of the gulf carries civilian volunteers from the Cajun Navy those good old boys   with fast boats and big hearts --   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Give us the name of an individual or tell us somebody to go pick up, we`ll try to go get them. WEIR:  And a newer outfit known as Project Dynamo led by a former military intelligence officer more accustomed to saving Americans from Russians in   Ukraine or the Taliban in Afghanistan. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  When Americans are in trouble in bad spots, usually we do war zones and conflict zones, but Hurricane Ian qualifies. WEIR:  And you`re named after Churchill`s operation. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Correct. WEIR:  To get the British soldiers off of Dunkirk, yeah.   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And now, here we are we`re going to rescue some people off of Sanibel which is cut off from the world right now. WEIR:  Yeah, yeah. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  So it`s a very apropos. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We`re trying to help people out if they need help. WEIR:  You need help? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You need help? You want to get out of here? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I`m in the (INAUDIBLE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Give us a minute. We`ll come up. We`ll get it. We`ll come there. WEIR:  We follow the cry for help ashore on Sanibel to find a gentleman eager to accept the boat lift but unable to convince his better half. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We`re going. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  But where? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Fort Myers. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The bridge is out. The bridge is knocked out. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I`m not. I`m not ready to go. WEIR:  A cursory stroll around this part of Sanibel reveals plenty of hazards like the hiss of natural gas spewing from a broken tank.  But in one of the most coveted zip codes in Florida, the construction mostly held up which is in stark contrast to Pine Island. Look at this one. Absolutely flattened.  Especially the mobile homes or the working class and retirees living in St. James City. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Hey, ma`am, are you okay? It`s your daughter called us. WEIR:  When their phone cut out early in the storm, the grandchildren of Nancy and Robert Sharon (ph) were so scared, they called the Cajun Navy and   Project Dynamo and begged them to go check for proof of life.  NANCY SHARON (ph), HURRICAN SURVIVOR:  I heard it that they weren`t going to do anything after the bridge closed down. But my granddaughters are in   Ohio and she was crying hysterical when I talked to her other point. She`s like we were thinking that you gotten hurt and I said, no, there`s no   service. There`s no service. WEIR:  That`s the thing. The uncertainty brings so much. SHARON:  I knew it, and that`s that had me more worried than what was going on at the time, because I knew my family was worried. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It`s terrible what we`re going through. There`s a terrible set of circumstances. The destruction is unbelievable. The   suffering is going to be bad hundreds of people are read right now we just haven`t found them yet.  So the -- you know, this is true carnage. It`s a war zone.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Thank you, gentlemen. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  But at the same time, I`m really happy that we could be here to help. WEIR:  It was also so lovely to see Brian and the rest of the guys there show such empathy for the woman who is not ready to leave. He told me he   thought she might be in shock, she doesn`t really fully appreciate how unlivable Sanibel is going to be over coming days and so, they`ll go back   and try to get her again the next day. Projectdynamo.org or go cajunnavy.org are the ways you might throw them a couple bucks to help gas   those boats. But they`ll be out there and we`ll keep looking for the helpers. Let me send it back to you. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Starting today, a new session for the United States Supreme Court, the highest court in the nation with nine justices who decide if laws and   government actions are constitutional. The newest justice on the Supreme Court is Ketanji Brown Jackson who is nominated by President Biden and then   confirmed by the U.S. Senate earlier this year. She takes her seat on the bench for oral arguments today and the new addition will cause the court to   invoke one of its honored traditions, the rearrangement of where the justices are seated on the bench when a new justice joins its ranks.  In the courtroom, the justices are seated according to seniority. So, Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Clarence Thomas have the same seats in the   center as they did last term but the remaining justices will be shuffled around.  The Supreme Court has a busy season ahead deciding on upcoming cases on voting discrimination, and the college admissions process. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia time: What pro sports league has the biggest viewership? Major League Baseball, National Basketball Association, National Football League or Major League Soccer? Answer is NFL, which in 2021 averaged 17 million viewers per game on TV and digital. (END VIDEO CLIP) The NFL is under fire this week after the Miami Dolphins quarterback was taken off the field in a stretcher during Thursday night`s game. Last   Sunday, Tua Tagovailoa hit his head on the turf and stumbled off the field when playing Buffalo. He was taken off the field evaluated for concussion   but was cleared and allowed to return with what the team called a back injury.  The NFL and the players association launched a joint investigation. The players association has reportedly fired the unaffiliated neurotrauma   consultant involved in clearing Tua to return. The Dolphins maintained they did follow concussion protocol. Well, just four days after that hit, Tangavailoa`s head was slammed to the turf again, resulting in a frightening scene. He was taken to the hospital,   diagnosed with a concussion. Tua tweeted on friday that he`s feeling better and focused on recovering. On Saturday, the NFL and the NFLPA began   conversations that could result in changes to the current concussion protocol. Tua Tagovailoa is expected to be interviewed as part of the   ongoing investigation in the coming days. And for today`s 10 out of 10, one of America`s most iconic landmarks is getting all prettied up for its 100th birthday. The Hollywood sign in Los   Angeles getting a fresh coat of paint. The last time was 10 years ago. The paintstakingly long process takes two months and 400 gallons of paint and   primer. The sign is one and a half football fields long, with each letter standing 45 feet tall.  Did you know that when the sign was first built in 1923, it originally said "Hollywood land" to lure home buyers to the hillside`s real estate   development? Land was then dropped in and today, Hollywood is a world famous symbol for the entertainment industry. Well, that`s all we have time for, for now. But before we go, special shout-out to Romig Middle School in Anchorage, Alaska. Thanks for   subscribing and commenting some love on our YouTube channel.  I`m Coy Wire and this is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-10-04
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Happy Tuesday. I`m Coy Wire. Thanks for making us part of your day at CNN 10. Let`s kick off our show with a discussion on the four-day workweek. Sounds good, right, teachers? Is it possible though? Is it better?  The concept of the four-day work week is simple, get paid the same but only work four days a week. A growing list of companies are testing shorter work   weeks to avoid employee burnout especially as the United States is faced with a tight labor market and employers are doing more to attract talent. Workers are burned out from the pandemic and are putting greater value on personal time. Quiet quitting and the great resignation are popular terms   in offices all across the country.  This week, 28 companies in the U.S. and Canada began a six-month pilot program of shortened work weeks in partnership with a non-profit called   four-day week global.  And this isn`t the first program of its kind. Companies that participated in pilot program in Britain say they saw no loss in productivity during a   similar experiment and in some cases, they saw significant improvement. Employees say they have more time to spend with their families to invest in   hobbies and to sleep.  Now, all this they say boosts their well-being, therefore making them more productive at work. Many companies that try a four-day work week, they say   they`ll likely keep them going.  But it`s also important to note that the four-day work week is not the norm. And for some industries, it`s not even possible. Companies in   manufacturing and service industries and restaurants, they need to hire more people for more shifts which would cut profits and ultimately impact   the consumers.  Let`s hear more now from CNN chief business correspondent Christine Romans. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE0 CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Five days pay, four days work, a four-day workweek. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Four-day workweek, sounds amazing, right? UNIDENTIFIED FEMAEL:  Shorter workweek, same pay? ROMANS:  More than 180 companies and thousands of employees around the globe have joined a six-month pilot program to see how a four-day workweek   could function for their businesses. And so far, the experience has been --   JON LELAND, CHIEF STRATEGY OFFICER, KICKSTARTER:  Positive. (LAUGHTER) SAMANTHA LOSEY, MANAGING DIRECTOR, UNITY:  Chaotic. We didn`t know what we were doing. We were all over the shop. ROMANS:  It sounds like an idea fresh out of the pandemic. A Silicon Valley dream, right? Not quite.  The reality is that the desire for a shorter workweek goes back a long time, a really long time.  JULIET SCHOR, ECONOMIST AND SOCIOLOGY PROFESSOR, BOSTON COLLEGE:  In the 1970s, it was fairly popular and people were talking about the crisis of   leisure, and then it faded from you for a long time. ROMANS:  I guess the tide has gone out and we`ve seen just how strapped we all were with our work lives and home lives and lack of balance there. SCHOR:  The pandemic turbocharged the four-day week because employers started, you know, having to figure out some solutions to the stress and   burnout. But the other thing is is remote work because one of the things that we hear from management is that remote work taught management, it   could trust its employees. ROMANS:  Okay. So let`s talk about the basic parameters then of the four- day week global pilot program. SCHOR:  The requirements are no reduction in pay. So all employees are still getting their five days pay. And there must be a meaningful reduction   in work time.  So the vast majority are going to a four-day 32-hour week. You`ve got to figure out how to do it so that you can maintain your productivity and your   output and so forth. ROMANS:  Why did you guys decide to try this? LELAND:  There was enough evidence out there that suggested that companies particularly like Kickstarter can successfully transition to a four-day   work week while maintaining or improving productivity. But we`re also looking at the way that work was changing given the pandemic. We moved to   fully remote and we just saw people that were burnt out and tired.  And retaining our employees, making easier to hire employees and making sure our employees were happy at home is really why we decided to pursue   it. LOSEY:  The first six weeks navigating those was really, really hard. After that first weekend of us doing four days and then, you know, having either   the Friday, the Monday off, I thought, what have I done? I`m going to ruin this business without even trying. ROMANS:  But now fast forward, you`ve had the mindset shift. You figured out the handovers. LOSEY:  Yeah. ROMANS:  People came in. The workers were fighting for it to keep the four- day workweek. And how are you now? LOSEY:  We`re doing amazing now. By the time we had kind of gotten into that fourth month, it really started to go together. And one of the big   benefits we`ve seen is just the perspective and almost kind of freshness that people bring to work with them because of those four days and that   fifth day really giving them time to do stuff they want to do. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia time: What`s the name of this famous clock tower?  The Elizabeth Tower, Big Ben, Parliament Tower, or the Tower of London? The correct answer is the Elizabeth Tower. Big Ben is the nickname for its hour bell. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Time now to travel across the pond to the city of London. Their world famous clock is getting a facelift. The Elizabeth Tower is so much   more than a timepiece or piece of architecture. It`s a symbol of British freedom and democracy. It`s been under construction since 2017 and will   cost million pounds when all said and done. Let`s go inside now to get a glimpse of London that not many people get to see. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORTER:  It`s probably the most famous clock tower in the world, a symbol of London, British democracy and freedom that needed saving urgently. Since 2017, Big Ben`s bongs have been almost entirely silent. And until recently, the Elizabeth Tower has been hidden behind scaffolding undergoing   an 18 million pound makeover to fix leaking roofs and crumbling stonework among other issues. NICK STURGE, RESTORATION PROJECT MANAGER:  We`ve replaced lots of stone. We`ve replaced all of the clock face glass. We`ve taken off all of the cast   iron up at the roof level and repaired it and put it back on. REPORTER:  International tourists have never been permitted inside the tower, but parliament`s estates historian, Dr. Mark Collins, can take us   399 steps to the top and show us what`s changed. DR. MARK COLLINS, HISTORIAN:  We have one of the cast iron dials which has 324 pieces of mouth-blown opal glass. We found that it wasn`t actually   black paint on the exterior but it was a very vivid Prussian blue which has now been returned. REPORTER:  New energy efficient LED lights will illuminate the clocks. They`ll be able to change color to support causes or festivals. Hundreds of cogs, gears and chains that turn the dial hands and operate the bell hammers have been removed and cleaned.  COLLINS:  This is the striking train which is Big Ben.  REPORTER:  When the mechanism and bell are reacquainted, Big Ben can strike again and the renovation will be complete. COLLINS:  Central one is Big Ben, the hour bell, which weighs over 13 tons, and then the four quarter bells give the chew, the Westminster quarters,   which are taken from "Handel`s Messiah". REPORTER:  Shortly after it was installed, a crack appeared in the bell but instead of having it replaced, the bell was turned, the hammer size reduced   and is told with a deep sonorous E note ever since. COLLINS:  It`s such a serious note after the quarter chime.  REPORTER:  After the devastating wars of the 20th century, Big Ben`s bongs took on new meaning. COLLINS:  First of all, it plays its part in a ceremony, on armistice days, in the remembrance of the thousands who died in the first war. When we come   to the Second World War, it`s heard around the world. It`s broadcast by the BBC and people hear it and they know that there is still one free country   left in Europe. REPORTER:  At the very top of the tower, beyond the gilding that has been restored and replaced, unique 360 degree views across the city, down onto   parliament square and Westminster abbey, and over the Thames in South London.  COLLINS:  The clock tower has become such a feature of London. It has a festive ads or it`s got a sort of toy like charm to it, and I think now   that it`s returned to this sort of frivolity that they`ve had with all the gilding replaced and the new color scheme, I think it`s looking very   special indeed. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And for today`s "10 out of 10", a tremendous way to plan an autumn trip across the country to see unbelievable sights. Nature lovers are   falling in love with a guide that shows exactly when and where to see the charm of the changing fall colors in every state. You can pumpkin spice   things up a bit with precision using the interactive map at smokymountains.com. Hurry though because when winter comes, this lovely   time of year leaves. Time now for a special shout out to Midwest City Middle School in Midwest City, Oklahoma. We`re not going to leave you hanging. Thanks for   subscribing and commenting on our YouTube page.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10 and we`ll see you tomorrow. END     

Date: 2022-10-05
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, CNN 10 family. Wonderful Wednesday to you. I`m Coy Wire. Thank you for making us part of your day. Only 540 more seconds left in this show, so let`s make the most of them and let`s go. Now, we start with some concerning moments for the people of Japan. On Tuesday, Japan urged its residents to take shelter after North Korea fired   a ballistic missile over the country for the first time in five years and without warning. The action prompted immediate backlash from neighboring   South Korea and allies around the world.  The missile is a potentially dangerous escalation of recent weapons tests by the Kim Jong-un regime which governs North Korea. The country has been   conducting a lot of missile tests. There have been five launches in the past days and Tuesday`s launch marked their 23rd missile test this year.  There were no reports of damage but the unannounced missile triggered a rare nationwide alert system in Japan. Experts say that Tuesday`s launch   could be the start of more intense actions from North Korea.  The president of South Korea said that North Korea will have to quote pay the price for their actions but the ability to punish North Korea is   limited because of resistance from China and Russia. Next up, we`ll go to the country of Somalia where families are wondering when or if their next meal will come. The East African nation is facing   tremendous drought and the effects have been devastating. While the threat of famine looms with extreme scarcity of food, people are already starving.  Parents and children are having to journey two hours at times just to get fresh water to drink. Half the population need humanitarian assistance. All   this is happening while Somalia still hasn`t even fully recovered from the last regional drought in 2017 or from the devastating effects of the COVID-  19 pandemic. More for us now from CNN international correspondent Larry Madowo. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LARRY MADOWO, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  This is what I`m hearing from every Somali official I`ve spoken to and every aid worker there. This   is one of the worst droughts they have ever seen and the effects are heartbreaking.  But with so much else happening in the world, suffering Somalis can get forgotten. Right now, about half of the population in Somalia needs   humanitarian assistance and it could get worse. The country`s gone two years without rains and is experiencing its worst drought in 40 years. Aid agencies say around 7 million Somalis are projected to face food insecurity even animals struggle to survive. But it`s not just supplies at   home that are an issue. The battle against the armed group al-Shabab makes delivering aid hard. And the war in Ukraine has sent food prices soaring. But help is coming. More than 70 percent of the $1.4 billion in aid for Somalia has been raised mostly by the U.S. And just this month, Ukraine   pledged 50 tons of wheat to both Somalia and Ethiopia, much like this shipment which docked in Djibouti last month. Somali was already suffering from the impacts of the global pandemic, but adds to that, the effects of Russia`s invasion of Ukraine on food supplies   but especially this severe drought has brought the country to the brink. The situation is so desperate that if nothing changes, more people could   die. That is why that funding they`re looking for will be so critical. Larry Madowo, CNN, London. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: In carpentry, what term means to cut a sloping angle that is not 90 degrees? Inlay, counterbore, crosscut or bevel? If you said bevel, put your hands up. You are right. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  We are thrilled now to introduce you to one of our CNN Heroes, Nora El-Khouri Spencer. She`s closing the opportunity gap by training women for   careers in construction and helping them build new lives.  Her non-profit Hope Renovations offers free programs preparing women with the skills and certifications they need to find high-paying jobs in   construction. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NORA EL-KHOURI SPENCER, CNN HERO:  I wasn`t a handy person growing up. If my parents needed something fixed, they would ask my brother and they just   never asked me. When my husband Brian and I bought our first home, I realized pretty quickly that my takes were outside of my budget. So I just started buying   tools and trying to learn things on my own, and I figured out pretty quick that I was good at it. Over the years, I`d hire contractors to help me do things I didn`t know how to do and I actually learned a lot. And then it hit me that I had never met   another woman. In my mid-30s, I decided to go back to school and get a master`s in social work. I was doing a field placement in a homeless shelter working with   women who needed a good living wage paying opportunity, and I would talk to them about jobs in this industry. And their reaction was always no one`s   ever taught me any of that stuff. It`s a man`s job. And I realized there`s an opportunity gap. That`s a gap I can help fill.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We`re going to talk about roof framing and putting the sheathing on the roof today. So we`re going to go ahead and plan that   out. SPENCER:  With Hope Renovations, we offer a 10-week pre-apprenticeship program. They learn safety, tools and materials, blueprint reading,   construction math. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Have you got all that?  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Got it. Yeah. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  All right. So let`s go put it into practice. SPENCER:  And then they get into hands-on practice with tools. They learn the basics of carpentry, electrical, plumbing. It`s a lot of work. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We`re going to figure out where our birdsmouths are going to go.  SPENCER:  Our program is totally free. We`ve had single moms, women in recovery, women who are just re-careering, all kinds of different people   coming together and finding a shared excitement. Our program is actually solving two problems at once. We`re bringing women into this industry and we`re also helping older adults age in place.  The crews here today building a ramp for a client who she`s having trouble getting into her home.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I`ve been here since 1975. And I have arthritis,  it`s real bad, in my knees. It was very hard trying to get in and out   because I didn`t have anything to hold on to. SPENCER:  We`re able to bring the trainees out onto job sites with our construction team so they can get their hands dirty, they can practice   their newfound skills.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  This is where it gets fun. SPENCER:  So they`re giving back while they`re learning. That`s really a win-win. If we don`t see women out there doing this, other women, they`ll   never see this as an opportunity. So that`s a big part of what we`re trying to do here. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  And they just act like they having fun doing it. I want to thank y`all for all your help and all your beautiful smiles. I`m so   grateful just to know that there`s some people out here that cares and I won`t ever forget all you women. I tell anybody, you want to see a ramp   build (ph), come to my house, I`ll tell you who build it. SPENCER:  You`re out there and you get to watch something come together that you built.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Wonderful.  SPENCER:  Does that feel like it`s going to work for you? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Yes. SPENCER:  Great.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  This is awesome. SPENCER:  There`s just such a feeling of accomplishment. We`re providing hope to the people that we serve. That`s a lot of lives changed. I love   that part of it, We`re helping them renovate their lives. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s "10 out of 10", we`re taking you to the small town in Kentucky called Lake Malone where something is askew. In the woods, you   will find these creatures that mysteriously popped up sometime last year. Locals call these statues the "big twigs", and these things are big. The   tallest stands at a whopping 18 feet tall.  Three of them were first introduced to the area in 2021, and locals didn`t even really know where they came from. But recently three more have   appeared and park officials say that these artist creations have increased park visitation tree-mendously. Also tree-mendous, the GLOBE Academy in Atlanta, Georgia, we see you. And one more thing before we go, did you know that today is National Do Something Nice Day. So whether it`s a kind word or two or just a simple   smile, do the little things that make this world a better place. I`m Coy Wire and this is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-10-06
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Coy Boy here aka Mr. Clean. Happy Friday eve. Big show for you today, but only minutes to do it so let`s get to it. As we`ve previously reported, the nation of Iran has seen protests in more than 80 cities over the past few weeks after a young woman named Mahsa   Amini was detained by the country`s morality police for allegedly failing to wear a hijab or headscarf. They`re mandated by national law. Mahsa died in custody, prompting a nationwide response. Protesters, many of whom are women, are taking to the streets across the country in rare   displays of defiance. Citizens are also challenging the government over religious rules and a failing economy.  The protests are gaining momentum but the government is cracking down on protesters who they say have made the streets dangerous and multiple   casualties have been reported since the conflict began.  Experts say the protests are likely to continue as protesters seem bolder and more defiant than in previous demonstrations in 2019, 2017, and 2009.   This is posing an unprecedented challenge to the Iranian regime. The protesters themselves are also unique, transcending Iran`s social and   ethnic divisions.  We`re going to hear more from CNN investigative producer Katie Polglase whose research looks at how the protests are spreading around the world on   social media. Her research also looks into how Iran is restricting the internet in an attempt to crack down on dissent.  And before we get started, a note to everyone watching, CNN has contacted the U.S. and Iranian governments for comment but has yet to receive a   response. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KATIE POLGLASE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  As protesters took to the streets of Iran following the death of Mahsa Amini, video clip of this   uprising began to flood the Internet, making sure the world saw and heard the desire for change.  But then it went dark.  ALP TOKER, DIRECTOR AT NETBLOCKS:  Starting with Instagram and WhatsApp and LinkedIn.   POLGLASE:  NetBlocks is one of the global leaders on Internet monitoring. They quickly observed alarming electricity in Iran.  TOKER:  What`s astounding is the variety of Internet restrictions and disruptions that have been put in place.  POLGLASE:  Users inside Iran confirmed the shutdown, sending CNN screenshots of sites they couldn`t access.  The Iranian government has a long history of restricting the Internet. Protests in 2019 prompted the most severe shutdown to date, an attempt to   hide from the world a violent crackdown on dissent.  But the Iranian people have become experts at finding work-arounds. A young tech savvy population, vast numbers of them use VPN, virtual private   networks.  Now even this may be difficult. This teenager told us via text from inside Iran that the government is disabling VPNs one by one. However, the   obstacles Iranians face have come not just from their own government, but also from the international community.  For the last decade, U.S. sanctions led many major tech companies to withdraw from Iran completely.  Mahsa Alimardani is an internet researcher focusing on freedom of expression online in Iran.  MAHSA ALIMARDANI, SENIOR INTERNET RESEARCHER, ARTICLE 19:  There`s a massive, you know, population of Iranian technologists, Iranian developers   who rely on certain services like Google cloud platform or Google app engine. And so this has been basically blocked from the U.S. side because   of sanctions. This had had a detrimental impact.  POLGLASE:  Activists say that removing alternatives for Iranian users has actually bolstered the Iranian government`s efforts to set up a national   internet.  ALIMARDANI:  Infrastructure stays local, the data stays local, the ability for the authorities to censor and control what is going on in the internet   remains centralized into their hands.  POLGLASE:  Following the latest protests, the U.S. Treasury finally announced updates to their sanctions in order to encourage tech companies   to operate in Iran.  ALIMARDANI:  It has been almost ten years that Iranians have had to wait for the update and the license. And while better late than never, it has   been a belated action by the U.S. government and so there has been a lot of harm done in the interim.  POLGLASE:  The onus is now on tech companies to act. Many large tech firms including Google and Meta have said they planned to open up new services to   Iran after the U.S. announcement. But activists say they are doing a fraction of what`s possible.  AMIR RASHIDI, DIRECTOR, DIGITAL RIGHTS & SECURITY, MIAAN GROUP:  Iran is kind of isolated. So, we need to break that isolation. So, we need to see   more help coming from other big tech companies like Google.  ALIMARDANI:  The crucial services really have not been worked on yet. So there`s a lot to be desired.  POLGALSE:  Google told CNN ongoing legal or technical barriers may block the provision of certain services, but we are exploring whether additional   products might be made available.  Meanwhile, those inside Iran remain frustrated at the inaction. This young Iranian told CNN, tech companies were restricting them and not the   government.  Katie Polglase, CNN, London.  (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which one of these U.S. service academies would you find at Annapolis, Maryland? The Military Academy, the Naval Academy, the Air Force Academy, or the Coast Guard Academy? Established in 1845, the U.S. Naval Academy is in Annapolis, and it`s where we`re headed next. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  You`re about to get a glimpse inside the hearts and minds of individuals who`ve decided to dedicate their lives to all of us. We had the   rare privilege of visiting the U.S. Naval Academy to go through their vaunted sea trials. Not open to the public, it`s a rite of passage for   freshmen that includes 14 grueling hours of physical and mental challenges people are tested and pushed themselves to the brink of exhaustion.  But something magical happens when individuals dig deep and get support from their peers to become something greater than they ever were before. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  It`s 2:30 in the morning and I`m in Annapolis, Maryland, at the U.S. Naval Academy. I`m Coy Wire, and this is Sea Trials. (CHEERS) (MUSIC) WIRE:  I hope I`m not going to scratch my head. (MUSIC) (CHEERS) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  They`re doing their exercises in the water, the wet and sandy, which sounds fun at 5:30 in the morning and 50-degree weather. This shows them that they`re only as strong as their weakest link. So, they learn how to work together, they learn how to communicate together. (INAUDIBLE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  These plebes are tired, their feet hurt. They`re wet. They`re sweaty. It`s just a very long day for them physically and mentally. WIRE:  Hearts beating, feeling alive. (CHANTING) WIRE:  No joke, baby. This is no joke. (MUSIC) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We`re at pool phase right now. We have rifle overhead treads to (INAUDIBLE) degree in the water with a rifle over their head,   treading and work on teamwork. We will have a group of plebes going underwater and undoing locks while their teammates are out there are giving them the combination. So it`s   really a neat event, a great team building. (MUSIC) WIRE:  Look at his determination. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Everybody here, we`ve been learning about everything, from leadership to building up each other encouragement, trust, all of that   throughout the year. So this is like the combination of all that. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  They are going ahead to the endurance course.  (MUSIC) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Hey. Come on, guys. Finish strong! WIRE:  What kept you going?  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I have so many people here that are looking out for me. Honestly, I have never felt anything like that before, like it gives me   shivers. WIRE:  Does it inspire you to be that for someone else now? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  No doubt, no doubt. WIRE:  It`s been 14 hours of blood, sweat and tears. They could have quit but they didn`t. Sea Trials is done! (CHEERS) (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And for today`s "10 out of 10", this new keyboard may not be your type. Google Japan invented a keyboard of the future. It`s basically a   stick that`s more than five feet long. Creators say that two people can use it at the same time if you get keyboard or you can naturally be stretching   your arms out at school all day if you`re typing along. They also joke that it could be used to hit that far away light switch or even catch some bugs. All right. Special shout out today to Coach Deals Rise class at Stripling Middle School in Fort Worth, Texas. Thanks for subscribing and commenting   on our YouTube channel. Fun fact for you, Texas is larger than any country in Europe.  Thank you all for watching. We hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, and I`ll see you   tomorrow. END     

Date: 2022-10-07
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, everyone. We made it to Friday and you already know Fridays rock. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10, and we`ve got a   powerful show today to finish this week strong. First though, we have to head to the state of Florida where residents are dealing with the aftermath of Hurricane Ian. The storm hit the state just   over a week ago just shy of a category hurricane 5, making it one of the deadliest to ever make landfall. More than 100 people have died. Rescuers   are still working around the clock using boats and aircrafts to save people who are trapped.  As of this week, more than 2,300 rescues have been made but it`s still unclear how many people might still be missing. Across the state, people   also don`t have access to safe drinking water and to boil water notice was issued for 120 areas. Some residents in island communities off the coast of   Florida are still cut off from the mainland and hundreds of people have been without power for days. President Biden has pledged national aid for Florida and is working with Florida Governor Ron DeSantis but it`s a long road ahead still for those   who`ve been impacted. More now from CNN correspondent Leyla Santiago who`s there for us in Florida on Sanibel Island. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LEYLA SANTIAGO, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): An emotional return for the residents of Sanibel Island allowed back on the island for the first time   to check on their hopes and businesses a week after hurricane Ian ravaged the area.  Toni and Dan Tabor shed tears of relief after finding their home still standing.  TONI TABOR, SANIBEL ISLAND RESIDENT: We thought we`d come home and we thought those windows were broken, and we thought we`d find water, and we   thought we would come back and find everything gone.  SANTIAGO: But so many of their neighbors and friends didn`t fare as well.  TABOR: I mean, the house over there, we know all these people. It`s like family back here.  SANTIAGO: So this is West Gulf Drive, it`s one of the main streets here on Sanibel Island. It`s one of the parts that was the worst-hit area. And you   can tell, look behind me, this is now a street that is lined with debris. You can see straight into homes and see personal belongings everywhere.   Look over here. You also have part of a roof that is sitting on the side of the street.  But to make the point of exactly how powerful this storm was. Take a look at this home. Residents tell me that this was actually across the street.   Now you can see straight in what was once a family room, a kitchen no longer here. The equipment and refrigerator now partially out the door and   not much left to be salvaged.  ANDY GARCIA, OWNER, SANIBEL HOME CONCIERGE: There is already mildew growing.  SANTIAGO: Andy Garcia is a property manager on the island. He`s had to deliver bad news to families who couldn`t be here to check on their own   homes.  GARCIA: It`s totally devastating. To hear them on the other end of the phone and just gasping for air, you`re telling them their home is   destroyed. It`s totally heart-wrenching for me.  SANTIAGO: And heart-wrenching for the owners who lost everything.  STEVE SCHULTZ, SANIBEL ISLAND RESIDENT: Everything`s pretty much ruined inside.  JOE SCHULZ, SANIBEL ISLAND RESIDENT: Everything including dressers, beds, everything, ruined. It`s all in our front yard.  SANTIAGO: Steve and Lori Schulz are leaving the island for the first time since Ian hit.  LORI SCHULZ, SANIBEL ISLAND RESIDENT: Hopefully, we`re coming back to a house. Everybody works together. Everybody cares about each other. We`ll be   back.  SANTIAGO: And, you know, a lot of the people we`ve talked to are waiting for some sort of temporary fix to the Sanibel Causeway something Governor   Ron DeSantis has said that the government is working on it and that`s so important to them because they need to be able to move people to move   supplies in order to salvage anything they can from these homes before it`s too late and anyone is forced to tear down the homes completely. Leyla Santiago, CNN, Sanibel Island, Florida. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Ten-second trivia: In the U.S. midterm elections, how many seats are up for re-election in the House of Representatives? One hundred, 35, 435, or 143? The answer is 435,while about a third of the 100-seat U.S. Senate are up for election, all 435 seats on the ballot for the House are up. The midterm elections in the United States are one month away. Americans will head to the polls to cast their votes on November 8th. They`re called   midterm elections because they happen in the middle of a president`s four- year term. Americans will be voting for representatives in Congress and candidates for state and local offices.  Currently, President Biden`s Democratic Party controls both the House of Representatives and the Senate but a lot can happen in October.  The term October surprise was coined by former President Ronald Reagan`s campaign manager during the election because unexpected events during the   last month of campaigning can impact voter choices and change the trajectory of the election in a major way.  We`ll hear more now from CNN national politics reporter Eva McKend taking a look back at a few of the October surprises of the past. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) EVA MCKEND, CNN NATIONAL POLITICS REPORTER: It`s October. Leaves begin to change color, the weather starts to chill.  But in the world of politics, it`s when campaigns start to heat up and it`s when unexpected news or events often occurred during the election cycle   commonly known as an October surprise, a game-changing event that can possibly damage one candidate`s chances and boosts the others. October surprises have been around for decades and it is part of U.S. politics even before the term was used politically, going back 50 years to   1972, President Richard Nixon`s national security adviser Henry Kissinger has late news about the unpopular Vietnam War. HENRY KISSINGER, NIXON`S NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: We believe that peace is at hand. MCKEND: He was wrong and the war wouldn`t come to a close for two and a half more years. In 1980, in what was the October surprise that never happened, 52 U.S. hostages held in Iran were not released before the election, despite   President Jimmy Carter`s efforts. Instead, they were set free as soon as Ronald Reagan was inaugurated. In `92, Reagan`s successor George H.W. Bush seeking re-election was days away from the vote when a top Reagan team member Casper Weinberger was   indicted over the Iran-Contra affair. With the stock market taking a nosedive, and recession wearing its ugly head, GOP presidential nominee John McCain insisted --  SEN. JOHN MCCAIN (R-AZ): Fundamentals of our economy are strong. MCKEND: Voters disagreed with this assessment and what was once a tight race became a Democratic blowout, with Barack Obama winning. In 2012, in what was more of a September surprise than an October surprise, audio tape of Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney surfaced,   characterizing almost half the voters as dependent on government handouts. MITT ROMNEY (R), THEN-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Forty-seven percent of the people who will vote for the president no matter what.  MCKEND: President Obama went on to win re-election. And during the 2020 presidential election where it was a true October surprise, Trump along with the first lady tested positive for coronavirus,   days after the first presidential debate with Joe Biden. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Now for today`s "10 out of 10". We have someone putting the dude in doodle. British artist Sam Cox has been doodling since he was three years   old. His scribbles and bits have been on murals. They`ve been on cars. But for his latest project he doodled the entire kitten caboodle from his bed and blankets to his interior walls and stairs. He covered every square   inch of his house, dude. It took him two whole years to complete. Even his toilet is decked out with doodles.  If you could live in a house like that, would you doodle it? I`ll tell you what we`re going to doodle now. We`ve got a special shout out to Manchester   Junior and Senior High School in Manchester, Michigan. We hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful weekend. I`m Coy and this is CNN 10.  END 

Date: 2022-10-10
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Hope you had a great weekend. I`m Coy. Grateful to be part of your day right here on CNN 10.  We`re going to make this an awesome week. Coming up, we`re going to look at a Supreme Court case that could determine the future of the Internet. But first, we`ll start with news out of the Russian occupied territory of Crimea. Crimea is a peninsula on the north coast of the Black Sea. Russia   formally annexed the region from Ukraine in 2014 and they`ve occupied it ever since. That same year, Russian President Vladimir Putin began building   a bridge connecting the Crimean peninsula to Russia.  But on Saturday, as Russia continues its war against Ukraine, the 12-mile Kerch Strait Bridge linking Crimea to Russia was hit by a blast that killed   at least three people. The attack also did significant damage to the bridge which is an important supply chain for Russian troops fighting in southern   Ukraine. This bridge holds strategic and symbolic importance for the Russian government. In response to the attack, the Ukrainian government   applauded the damage but didn`t take responsibility for it. More now from CNN`s senior international correspondent Fred Pleitgen.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  A devastating blow to Vladimir Putin`s war effort in Ukraine both   strategically and symbolically. The Kerch Bridge, that links Russia`s mainland with occupied Crimea, on fire and heavily damaged. Moscow`s investigative committee acknowledging the severity of the attack. SVETLANA PETRENKO, RUSSIAN INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE (through translator):  According to preliminary information, a truck exploded on the automobile   part of the Crimean bridge from the side of the Taman Peninsula in the morning today, which caused seven fuel tanks to ignite on a train heading   towards the Crimean peninsula. As a result, two lanes partially collapsed. PLEITGEN:  This CCTV video appears to show the moment of the blast. A truck is seen driving on the lane leading towards Crimea when all of a sudden,   there`s a massive explosion, though it`s not clear whether it is a truck that actually blew up.  Russian officials saying several people were killed in the attack. Moscow already pointing the finger at Ukraine. But so far, no claim of   responsibility from Kyiv`s leadership.  While Russian authorities say fuel and food supplies to Crimea are insured, videos released on social media show long lines forming at gas stations on   the peninsula just hours after the blast.  The Crimean bridge is a vital supply artery for Russian forces fighting in Ukraine, but it`s also a prestige project for Russian President Vladimir   Putin. Putin personally drove a truck across the bridge when it was opened in the attack came just a day after Putin`s 70th birthday. Moscow says it   got the railway section of the bridge up and running again quickly but the damage to the road section is more extensive creating another bottleneck   for Russian forces in southern Ukraine already struggling with logistics. Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Kyiv. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  On the first Friday of every month, the United States receives a jobs report which gives an overall summary on the state of the U.S.   economy. Last Friday`s report showed a still strong but slowing job market when compared to previous months. The unemployment rate fell to 3.5   percent, near the lowest in 50 years. The economy is still maintaining some momentum despite high interest rates, which is causing some investors to   feel that inflation may be tougher to fight, increasing worries of recession.  The report showed hiring was up across a variety of industries including manufacturing which added 22,000 jobs. We`re going to head now to a training facility in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, that`s preparing workers for the increase in labor opportunities in the   manufacturing industry where many factories report a need for skilled workers. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  At this training facility in Pittsburgh, job seekers are learning new skills to   seize on a post-pandemic spike in manufacturing. NEIL ASHBAUGH, PRESIDENT AND CEO, NEW CENTURY CAREERS:  What`s really heightened the issue of the big need and the big demand for these types of   individuals is with the coupling of COVID and the individuals that were already looking to retire in the next three to four years.  ROMANS:  Neil Ashbaugh is president and CEO of New Century Careers. It`s a non-profit for adults looking to enter the industry in the most competitive   environment in years. ASHBAUGH:  We have individuals that are completing these skilled training programs and yet are going out on five, six, seven interviews and those   companies are all competing for that single source skilled individual. ROMANS:  Since 2020, U.S. manufacturing has increased its profits by more than $200 billion, offering hundreds of thousands of jobs each month. So what`s behind the latest boost? At the Jennison Corporation, workers are busy making everything from firefighters equipment to construction machinery. Hayden Jennison says recent supply chain issues overseas mean more new customers. HAYDEN JENNISON, PURCHASING MANAGER, JENNISON CORP:  It was taking months for parts to not only get manufactured but come across and they decided   that they were willing to pay U.S. manufacturing pricing to be able to get that much faster. ROMANS:  Pricing and product demands have changed drastically in recent years.  When service industries became scarce over the pandemic, demand for consumer products and, of course, PPE and medical equipment kept factory   workers essential.  ERIC ESOTA, PRESIDENT & CEO, NORTHEASTERN PA:  We often take a look at the images of manufacturing and we see the sparks flying in a welding   environment or perhaps it`s a little bit dingy dark. But by and large, our manufacturing, our jobs today are high-tech. ROMANS:  But today`s texts are also requiring higher salaries and more flexibility. JENNISON:  We`ve had to significantly raise our wages to stay competitive in the industry. ROMANS:  Jennison says there`s enough work to staff another full shift at this facility. But even at $20 to $30 an hour, finding the right team has   been difficult. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: The U.S. Supreme Court first convened in what U.S. city? Washington, D.C., New York, Boston or Philadelphia? In 1790, the Supreme Court first met in New York, later moved to Philadelphia and then settled in Washington, D.C. where it hears cases   today. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Today, the Supreme Court is hearing a case that could decide the Internet`s future. A new threat to the Internet, it all started back in   1996 when the Communications Decency Act was created to protect free speech online. But both Democrats and Republicans believe the law makes social   media companies too powerful by shielding them from getting sued when users post harmful content on their platforms. The case could impact companies   that don`t remove content even when it violates their policies. We`ll hear more now from CNN digital producer Jon Sarlin who`s exploring what this all means. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JON SARLIN, CNN DIGITAL PRODUCER:  Mark, can you just give us a quick rundown of Section 230 and why it`s relevant to these two cases? MARK JOSEPH STERN, SENIOR WRITER, SLATE:  Yeah. So section 230 is sort of the foundational law of the Internet. And it says when people post stuff on   Facebook, Twitter, YouTube that might be illegal, objectionable, defamatory, those platforms can`t be sued. So they`re not like "The New   York Times" which can be sued if it publishes something defamatory. They`re special. They`re different. And the idea here was to ensure that a thousand flowers could bloom on the Internet, that platforms wouldn`t be stymied from allowing all of this   speech and that they could moderate content as they saw fit without worrying about any kind of legal ramifications. But this was in the mid `90s when Congress did not understand the Internet and very few of us foresaw what was going to happen to it. The challenges   facing Section 230 today are very different. SARLIN:  Let`s say the Supreme Court does go ahead and gut or repeal Section 230, do we have -- can we even imagine what an Internet without it   would look like at this point? STERN:  It`s impossible to imagine because we all know that these algorithms are like the business model of social media. They rely on these   algorithms to moderate a mind-boggling amount of content all the time. And what the platforms are telling the Supreme Court is, look, there`s just no   way that we can design a perfect algorithm that isn`t going to sometimes mess up and put a alarming or dangerous speech in front of eyeballs where   it shouldn`t be.  They`re saying that this is a fundamental threat to their existence because if the Supreme Court opens up liability under these circumstances, they`re   going to have to either recalibrate all of their algorithms or rely on human beings to moderate every bit of content on their website, which would   not be possible even if they hired an army of one billion content moderation. It just can`t be done. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And meow for today`s "10 out of 10". Meet Fenrir who set the new Guinness Book of World Records mark for tallest living domestic cat, standing at 18.83 inches from floor to shoulders.   You`ve cat to be kitten me. This Michigan-based kitty is an F2 savannah cat, a hybrid between a domestic cat and a serval, a wild cat native to Africa. Fenrir`s owner   nicknamed him "The Chunk" and says he`s so tall that he paws at handles to open doors and steals food off of countertops. Bad kitty. All right now on to my favorite part of the day a special shout out to you, and specifically to the American International School of Budapest. We hope   you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one.  I`m Coy. This is CNN 10 and I`ll see you tomorrow. END     

Date: 2022-10-11
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello and terrific Tuesday, everyone. I`m Coy and I`m grateful to be spending part of this day with you right here on CNN 10. Let`s get our engines running today by fueling up our minds with some news on the road. Are we getting closer to having our cars monitored and   controlled by the government? The infrastructure law passed last year gave the Transportation Department three years to craft a mandate that new   vehicles feature alcohol impairment detection technology.  The National Transportation Safety Board, the federal agency responsible for conducting independent accident investigations, is recommending alcohol   detection and calling for car makers to be incentivized to put speed limiters in new cars. Speed limitation could come in the form of a simple   audible or visual warning or even technology that would physically slow the vehicle down despite what the driver is doing.  Proponents say that it will make roads safer. Opponents say that it`s an attack on our freedom. What do you all think?  According to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 32 people die of alcohol-related collisions every day, more than 11,000 per year,   with fatalities climbing five percent last year. More now from CNN correspondent Pete Muntean who got a ride inside of one of the vehicles in New York, a state that already has the new technology in   place. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PETE MUNTEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Here we go. (voice-over):  In this electric car, a lead foot can only get so far. It`s equipped with intelligent speed assistance that means the car knows the   speed limit here is 20 miles per hour and it won`t let you go above it.  MEERA JOSHI, DEPUTY MAYOR OF OPERATIONS, NYC:  So I`m pressing the pedal but you see actually the numbers going down. MUNTEAN:  Driving me is New York City Deputy Mayor Meera Joshi.  The city is the first in the U.S. to try speed limiter technology in 50 of its fleet vehicles. JOSHI:  We need to be at the forefront. There`s no reason today with so much technology and so much awareness that anybody should die at the hands   of an automobile. MUNTEAN:  Federal data shows more than 20,000 deaths on our roads in the first half of this year. It is one reason why in its latest safety   recommendation, the National Transportation Safety Board is calling on the federal government to start incentivizing car makers to put speed limiter   systems in new cars.  JENNIFER HOMENDY, NYSB CHAIR:  We have to remember these aren`t just numbers these are people who have lost their lives. New York`s speed limiter program works through something called telematics, stored data on local speed limits is cross-referenced with a car`s GPS   position. Software in New York`s cars gives the driver an alarm, or simply just cuts off the accelerator when you reach the speed limit. JOSHI:  It`s called a dead pedal. MUNTEAN:  This system does have an override. If you press this button, you can accelerate beyond the speed limit for 15 seconds in case you need to   merge or speed up to meet the flow of traffic. PATRICIA WATFORD:  If somebody`s in the fast lane driving too slow, then to me that caused more accidents than driving fast too. BAYLEN MEYERS:  It feels kind of intrusive and invasive. NAKU MAYO:  I think from a regulatory standpoint, I think it might be overstepping some bounds. KARL BRAUER, EXEC. ANALYST, ISEECARS.COM:  I think the average consumer is going to see this as an overreach by the government. MUNTEAN:  Industry expert Karl Brauer says it will be up to car makers to accelerate safety without putting the brakes on sales. BRAUER:  I think a move like this is certainly a sign of the future. It`s a preview of coming attractions and probably an unavoidable one. MUNTEAN:  A change can`t come soon enough for Juan Paulido. JUAN PAULIDO:  I`m very hopeful they take it serious and they actually do make the changes. MUNTEAN:  His wife and kids were killed by an oncoming speeding drunk driver, a crash that served as inspiration for the NTSB calling for speed   limiter systems. PAULIDO:  It`s going to save lives. It`s going to prevent more accidents from happening and less families having to go through what I`m going   through. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: "Velocipede", "hobby horse" and "running machine" were all early nicknames for what invention? Treadmill, bicycle, golf cart, or elevator? Answer is the two-wheeled bicycle evolved and improved over the course of a century thanks to several inventors. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Sticking with our transportation theme today, I`m going to introduce you now to Dustin LaFont, a former middle school history teacher whose non-  profit Front Yard Bikes helps thousands of kids in Louisiana turn bicycles into vehicles of opportunity. The program teaches students how to build   their own bikes and gives them academic and job training opportunities. Meet now Dustin LaFont. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DUSTIN LAFONT, CNN HERO:  Our kids in south Louisiana grew up knowing they have to be resilient from day one.  The ties stay together. We have a lot of storms. We have such poverty. There`s not enough resources for education, for school, not enough food or nutrition.  We have a sobering murder rate, very high crime rate in Baton Rouge. If you look at the national ranks, we`re at the bottom of a lot of them. Inside, let`s go, let`s go. We could probably get you a whole new stem with a bar that has new grips, is that what you would like the most? Something like that there`s always   this ingenuity we can make do with less and we can be creative and do more with it.  I want you to do this with me. All right. Can you grab onto it? And there we go. All throughout my time at LSU, I was paying my way, so I just knew that if I was going to get to campus, I was going to do it by a bike. And if my   bike was going to break, well, I better learn to fix it. One kid on the street from me had a broken bike, so I told him I`ll make you a deal, I will provide you the tools and I will teach you how to do   this, I thought that was my you know Good Samaritan deed being a good Cajun neighbor, and that would be the only time I would ever build a bike like   that.  But the next day, I met his brother, you know? Then I met his sister, then I met 15 of his best friends who started coming to my house every day   looking for tools and bike pumps and bike parts. Kids would come after school and we would pull everything out and have this outdoor open   classroom in a yard.  At that point, people in the neighborhood just called us the Front Yard Bike Shop. After getting my masters, I went to teach middle school, history. There was hundreds and hundreds of kids who had no extracurricular outlet in middle   school. They needed a space and a place to belong. Nothing was more infuriating than seeing a kid in my class and then one day that desk is   empty, because they were expelled.  I really want to teach that kid. I want to see them get to that accomplishment. Our program is really open to anybody who would like to   access it to build a bike. We want any kid of any age to come learn mechanics and build it, earn it.  I want you to take your lever and running around, all the way. There you go. So, now, we have to insert your tube next. We have amazing talented wonderful kids who build and put in sweat and put in energy and put their all to making what they hope to be the vehicle of   opportunity.  We`ve seen over 2,000 kids participate in our programs. I`m proud of you. I love you guys. I want to announce the winners. In our space, our students get opportunity to see themselves as builders, creators and designers, dreamers. There you go. That`s all right. It starts to build on this thought of affirming who they are, but they`re a wonderful person, but they`re a person that makes the world better. But   they are beautiful. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And here`s something to talk about for today`s "10 out of 10".  It looks like it`s straight out of a spy movie. This massive yacht nearly half a football field long has open-air dining, a sprawled out sun deck   with, a boat-a-full swimming pool, but it transforms, seals up and becomes a fancy schmancy submarine, too. You and 120 of your closest peers can dive   650 feet beneath the sea for up to four days at a time. Unfortunately, it costs about $25 million, so dry land looks just fine too. That`s about all I have time for today. Remember, you are all more powerful than you know. Before I go I want to give a special shout out to a crew from Wichita, Kansas, the Sunflower State. Hamilton Middle School sending us the love and   we`re sending it right back at you. Yachts what I`m talking about. I`m Coy and this is CNN 10.   END     

Date: 2022-10-12
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Welcome to CNN 10. I`m Coy. Happy to be right here with you this glorious Friday eve. We`re almost to the weekend so let`s keep it going. We have talked Russia`s war against Ukraine this week. We`ve explored the issue of immigration. Today, we`re headed to Italy to one of the most active volcanoes in the world and it erupted again this week. It`s called the Stromboli volcano   because it`s located on Stromboli Island off the north coast of Sicily. The last major eruption took place in 2019. Explosions inside the volcano   unleash smoke and 2,200 degree lava flow that rapidly reached the Tyrrhenian Sea. But why do volcanoes erupt? Well, more than 80 percent of the earth`s surface above and below sea level is volcanic. And deep below the earth`s   surface tectonic plates are always moving most volcanic activity occurs where these plates collide. Deep within the earth, it`s so hot that rocks   slowly melt and become magma and because this flow glowing substance is lighter than the rocks around it, it rises. When some of the tectonic plates shift the magma rises even higher some of the magma pushes through the cracks in the earth`s crust at vents and   fissures until it reaches the surface where it`s then called lava. All right. Lava-ly people, an update now on our continued coverage on NASA`s DART mission also known as Double Asteroid Redirection Test. As it   turns out, when the DART mission slammed into the asteroid dimorphos on September 26th, it actually changed the space rock`s trajectory, shortening   its orbit. The mission was groundbreaking and the technology marks the first time humanity was able to move the trajectory of a celestial body. But there may be a catch. We`ll hear more now from CNN`s space and defense correspondent Kristen Fisher. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT:  And what we`ve learned is that this mission has exceeded even NASA`s wildest dreams. We   already knew that the DART spacecraft had successfully hit this asteroid dimorphos about two weeks ago. But what we didn`t know was if NASA had   succeeded in its primary objective which was to actually move this asteroid a little bit closer to a bigger asteroid which it was orbiting called   didymos. So, NASA just wanted to move dimorphos a little bit closer to didymos. They weren`t sure if they were going to be able to do it, but yesterday, NASA   confirmed it that yes, they had done it, marking the first time ever in history that humanity had actually been able to move a celestial body   somewhere out there in the universe. You know, for millions of years, earthlings have just had to take whatever comets or asteroids were headed our way, now humanity really proving for   the first time that they can strike back. And so, what NASA announced at this press conference yesterday is that they were able to shorten the orbit   dimorphos` orbit around that bigger asteroid didymos by 32 minutes. And so, the reason this is important is it proved that this technology actually works. And so someday if there is ever a potentially killer   asteroid headed to wipe out Planet Earth, the idea is that you could employ this type of technology and push it off course. The key though is you would   have to get there many years in advance because you can only move in orbit just a little bit. So, NASA proving this technology is possible, you just got to find this asteroid many years in advance in order for it to work. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Kangaroos are known for their powerful legs which propel them forward with ginormous jumps. But did you know kangaroos can`t go back. A   kangaroo`s hopping motion is called saltation which is the action of leaping or dancing did you know. They can bounce forward with ease using   those strong legs, but their muscular tail tendons and long feet keep them from being able to move in reverse. Now that`s random. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Now I want to introduce you to Isabelle Tompkins. She and her family are answering the call of the wild at Samara Private Game Reserve, a vast   67,000 acres in South Africa where they`re facilitating rewilding, a type of conservation where people step back and get out of the way of nature.   Rewilding is considered controversial and the benefits for both animals and humans are debated. But for Tompkins and her team, they`re hoping this approach will revitalize both the topography and ecosystem there in the Great Karoo Region. Let`s go   there now. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ISABELLE TOMPKINS, SAMARA PRIVATE GAME RESERVE:  The word conservation means to keep things the way they are. It means to prevent things from   getting worse. But rewilding has a much more ambitious remit and I think the planet deserves a more ambitious remit at this point in time. REPORTER:  Located in South Africa`s Great Karoo Region, the Samara Private Game Reserve was established by Isabelle Tompkins`s parents Sarah and Mark   Tompkins in 1997. TOMPKINS:  What rewilding seems to do is to restore ecosystem health by reintroducing all the component parts of that system, essentially   reintroducing all the pieces of the puzzle. REPORTER:  Spanning 67,000 acres, the park is home to five of South Africa`s nine vegetation bios and the team says it has over 60 different   species of mammals. TOMPKINS:  We`re located in a global by diversity hotspot. So, despite being a semi-arid region, there`s actually a remarkable amount of   biodiversity particularly endemic plants and also certain endangered species like the Cape Mountain zebra, the cheetah, the black rhinoceros. REPORTER:  In 2019, the Tompkins family reintroduced lions to the reserve after an absence of almost two centuries. TOMPKINS:  When you think of Africa, you think of a lion. There`s no feeling more primal than walking in the bush knowing there are lions   around. You feel all your ecological senses tingling. It`s s almost like a rewilding of itself. We`re seeing our founders` (ph) pride of lions at the moment, an incredible sighting, one of the best sightings I`ve ever had actually and seeing our   new little cub for the first time which is really, really exciting. And in terms of rewilding, it`s not just about the about bringing back a species that existed maybe 300 or 400 years ago, as wonderful it is to see   them back in their natural habitat. Rewilding, as I said, about bringing back the ecosystem and for lions being an apex predator quite clearly one of the main roles is the role of   predation. And if you look around us and you will see a lot -- a lot of skulls from some rather unfortunate wildebeests that have -- I guess lion   food over the past few years, but -- but it`s a key role really that they play in controlling herbivore numbers and enabling the filth (ph) itself   and the red grass go palatable and grasses to actually regenerate themselves as well. REPORTER:  From the mighty lion to each and every blade of grass, it`s all connected. TOMPKINS:  So human beings tend to want to compartmentalize nature. We want to divide it up into cells and units that we can understand, but nature   doesn`t really function like that. Nature works as a whole system and various elements can impact on each other in ways that we don`t even   understand yet. One of the central principles of rewilding is actually to manage an ecosystem less. It`s to -- to give nature back to nature. Give nature back to itself. We need to take a step back and sort of realize that we`re a part of nature   rather from apart from it. I think that if human beings can focus on their own sphere of influence and on making a difference in their own little   backyard. Our backyard just happens to be 27,000 hectares of Great Karoo landscape and -- and what a privilege for us to actually be able to spend   our time improving this landscape and making it work for -- for both people and planet. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIR:  Okay. For today`s "10 out of 10", I`ve seen a bedazzled shirt, a bedazzled notebook, a bedazzled water bottle. But I never seen this, this   vintage pickup truck got a fancy-schmancy makeover, including 300,000 glass crystals, hand glued one by one. Must have been exhausting. Auto shop owner Cleveland Shinn took this 1978 Chevy Sierra from drab to fab in nearly three months for the Austin City Limits Music Festival. If your favorite color is sparkle, this ride is for you. All right. Time`s almost up everyone. But before, I go I want to give a special shout out to Monticello Middle School in Monticello, Minnesota,   wishing you and everyone watching around the world a happy Friday Eve. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10, and I`ll see you tomorrow. END     

Date: 2022-10-13
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Welcome to CNN 10. I`m Coy. Happy to be right here with you this glorious Friday eve. We`re almost to the weekend so let`s keep it going. We have talked Russia`s war against Ukraine this week. We`ve explored the issue of immigration. Today, we`re headed to Italy to one of the most active volcanoes in the world and it erupted again this week. It`s called the Stromboli volcano   because it`s located on Stromboli Island off the north coast of Sicily. The last major eruption took place in 2019. Explosions inside the volcano   unleash smoke and 2,200 degree lava flow that rapidly reached the Tyrrhenian Sea. But why do volcanoes erupt? Well, more than 80 percent of the earth`s surface above and below sea level is volcanic. And deep below the earth`s   surface tectonic plates are always moving most volcanic activity occurs where these plates collide. Deep within the earth, it`s so hot that rocks   slowly melt and become magma and because this flow glowing substance is lighter than the rocks around it, it rises. When some of the tectonic plates shift the magma rises even higher some of the magma pushes through the cracks in the earth`s crust at vents and   fissures until it reaches the surface where it`s then called lava. All right. Lava-ly people, an update now on our continued coverage on NASA`s DART mission also known as Double Asteroid Redirection Test. As it   turns out, when the DART mission slammed into the asteroid dimorphos on September 26th, it actually changed the space rock`s trajectory, shortening   its orbit. The mission was groundbreaking and the technology marks the first time humanity was able to move the trajectory of a celestial body. But there may be a catch. We`ll hear more now from CNN`s space and defense correspondent Kristen Fisher. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT:  And what we`ve learned is that this mission has exceeded even NASA`s wildest dreams. We   already knew that the DART spacecraft had successfully hit this asteroid dimorphos about two weeks ago. But what we didn`t know was if NASA had   succeeded in its primary objective which was to actually move this asteroid a little bit closer to a bigger asteroid which it was orbiting called   didymos. So, NASA just wanted to move dimorphos a little bit closer to didymos. They weren`t sure if they were going to be able to do it, but yesterday, NASA   confirmed it that yes, they had done it, marking the first time ever in history that humanity had actually been able to move a celestial body   somewhere out there in the universe. You know, for millions of years, earthlings have just had to take whatever comets or asteroids were headed our way, now humanity really proving for   the first time that they can strike back. And so, what NASA announced at this press conference yesterday is that they were able to shorten the orbit   dimorphos` orbit around that bigger asteroid didymos by 32 minutes. And so, the reason this is important is it proved that this technology actually works. And so someday if there is ever a potentially killer   asteroid headed to wipe out Planet Earth, the idea is that you could employ this type of technology and push it off course. The key though is you would   have to get there many years in advance because you can only move in orbit just a little bit. So, NASA proving this technology is possible, you just got to find this asteroid many years in advance in order for it to work. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Kangaroos are known for their powerful legs which propel them forward with ginormous jumps. But did you know kangaroos can`t go back. A   kangaroo`s hopping motion is called saltation which is the action of leaping or dancing did you know. They can bounce forward with ease using   those strong legs, but their muscular tail tendons and long feet keep them from being able to move in reverse. Now that`s random. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Now I want to introduce you to Isabelle Tompkins. She and her family are answering the call of the wild at Samara Private Game Reserve, a vast   67,000 acres in South Africa where they`re facilitating rewilding, a type of conservation where people step back and get out of the way of nature.   Rewilding is considered controversial and the benefits for both animals and humans are debated. But for Tompkins and her team, they`re hoping this approach will revitalize both the topography and ecosystem there in the Great Karoo Region. Let`s go   there now. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ISABELLE TOMPKINS, SAMARA PRIVATE GAME RESERVE:  The word conservation means to keep things the way they are. It means to prevent things from   getting worse. But rewilding has a much more ambitious remit and I think the planet deserves a more ambitious remit at this point in time. REPORTER:  Located in South Africa`s Great Karoo Region, the Samara Private Game Reserve was established by Isabelle Tompkins`s parents Sarah and Mark   Tompkins in 1997. TOMPKINS:  What rewilding seems to do is to restore ecosystem health by reintroducing all the component parts of that system, essentially   reintroducing all the pieces of the puzzle. REPORTER:  Spanning 67,000 acres, the park is home to five of South Africa`s nine vegetation bios and the team says it has over 60 different   species of mammals. TOMPKINS:  We`re located in a global by diversity hotspot. So, despite being a semi-arid region, there`s actually a remarkable amount of   biodiversity particularly endemic plants and also certain endangered species like the Cape Mountain zebra, the cheetah, the black rhinoceros. REPORTER:  In 2019, the Tompkins family reintroduced lions to the reserve after an absence of almost two centuries. TOMPKINS:  When you think of Africa, you think of a lion. There`s no feeling more primal than walking in the bush knowing there are lions   around. You feel all your ecological senses tingling. It`s s almost like a rewilding of itself. We`re seeing our founders` (ph) pride of lions at the moment, an incredible sighting, one of the best sightings I`ve ever had actually and seeing our   new little cub for the first time which is really, really exciting. And in terms of rewilding, it`s not just about the about bringing back a species that existed maybe 300 or 400 years ago, as wonderful it is to see   them back in their natural habitat. Rewilding, as I said, about bringing back the ecosystem and for lions being an apex predator quite clearly one of the main roles is the role of   predation. And if you look around us and you will see a lot -- a lot of skulls from some rather unfortunate wildebeests that have -- I guess lion   food over the past few years, but -- but it`s a key role really that they play in controlling herbivore numbers and enabling the filth (ph) itself   and the red grass go palatable and grasses to actually regenerate themselves as well. REPORTER:  From the mighty lion to each and every blade of grass, it`s all connected. TOMPKINS:  So human beings tend to want to compartmentalize nature. We want to divide it up into cells and units that we can understand, but nature   doesn`t really function like that. Nature works as a whole system and various elements can impact on each other in ways that we don`t even   understand yet. One of the central principles of rewilding is actually to manage an ecosystem less. It`s to -- to give nature back to nature. Give nature back to itself. We need to take a step back and sort of realize that we`re a part of nature   rather from apart from it. I think that if human beings can focus on their own sphere of influence and on making a difference in their own little   backyard. Our backyard just happens to be 27,000 hectares of Great Karoo landscape and -- and what a privilege for us to actually be able to spend   our time improving this landscape and making it work for -- for both people and planet. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIR:  Okay. For today`s "10 out of 10", I`ve seen a bedazzled shirt, a bedazzled notebook, a bedazzled water bottle. But I never seen this, this   vintage pickup truck got a fancy-schmancy makeover, including 300,000 glass crystals, hand glued one by one. Must have been exhausting. Auto shop owner Cleveland Shinn took this 1978 Chevy Sierra from drab to fab in nearly three months for the Austin City Limits Music Festival. If your favorite color is sparkle, this ride is for you. All right. Time`s almost up everyone. But before, I go I want to give a special shout out to Monticello Middle School in Monticello, Minnesota,   wishing you and everyone watching around the world a happy Friday Eve. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10, and I`ll see you tomorrow. END     

Date: 2022-10-14
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. We made it to the weekend and you already know Fridays rock. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10 and I am pumped   to be with you to finish this week strong. Lots to get to so let`s get to it. One big question on many people`s minds is whether or not we`re headed for a recession or if we`re already in one right now.  President Biden said this week he doesn`t think the United States will enter a recession because of the strength of the job market but some   economists disagree. Biden recently passed legislation such as the American Rescue Plan and the Inflation Reduction Act citing those measures as   reasons why we might avoid a recession, but experts are sounding the alarm and pointing to the surge in inflation which is now at a nearly four-decade   high at eight and a half percent as one indication that we are indeed headed toward a recession. On top of that, some experts argue we`re already   in one. Let`s take 10 to break it all down. A recession is categorized as two consecutive quarters of economic decline during which trade an industrial   activity are reduced. On the positive side the current job market in the United States is particularly strong. In September, the economy added   263,000 jobs but high inflation could be indicative of an impending recession as businesses react to higher costs by reducing production and   increasing prices. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  A new gauge of how Americans are being pinched in the wallet a government report on the inflation that   businesses are feeling says those prices are still rising really fast, even if they rose not as fast in September as in August. CATHERINE RAMPELL, WASHINGTON POST OPINION COLUMNIST:  Some of that cost growth will get passed along to consumers in the form of higher prices for   food, higher prices for energy, higher prices for the services that they purchase as well.  TODD:  It comes as President Biden tells CNN he doesn`t share the gloomy outlook of some top economists. JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  I don`t think there will be a recession. If it is, it`ll be a very slight recession. That is we`ll move   down slightly. TODD:  What might a slight recession look like in America?  RICHARD QUEST, CNN BUSINESS EDITOR AT LARGE:  People are going to lose jobs. Unemployment is going to rise. We`re not going back to 10 percent   that we had during the pandemic, but the labor market is hot and interest rates are designed to cool it down. And that therefore means there will be   an increase in unemployment. It won`t be huge but it will be there. RANA FOROOHAR, GLOBAL BUSINESS COLUMNIST:  The cost of a home that is going up dramatically I think that it`s going to be harder to ask for a wage   hike. TODD:  Two of America`s most respected economic voices disagree with President Biden`s prediction that there won`t be a significant recession.   Economists telling Americans don`t panic and be patient. High prices at the store may take longer than you expect to level off. And even though it may   not last long, gas prices are on the uptick. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which of these layers of Earth`s atmosphere is the highest? Troposphere, thermosphere, stratosphere or mesosphere? Extending from 53 miles to 372 miles, the thermosphere is the highest of these particular layers. And the temperature here gets hotter the higher   you go. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Next up, we`re headed to Brunswick, Maine, where we`re getting exclusive access with a company hoping to launch rockets into space using a   fuel they say is so earth-friendly we could eat it. Now, this could be significant because with the establishment of the United States Space Force   in 2019, and individuals like Elon Musk and Jeff Bezos pushing the limits of recreational space travel, the number of space launches is skyrocketing. More now from CNN correspondent Rachel Crane who visits with Blushift founder Sasha Dairy. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SASCHA DERI, CEO, BLUSHIFT AEROSPACE:  That structure is what we`ve affectionately call rocket hinge, and what you`re seeing here is the engine   test site, it`s a horizontal engine test site.  RACHEL CRANE, CNN INNOVATION AND SPACE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  That`s Sascha Deri, the founder of a company called Blushift. Sascha and his team   are getting ready to test fire an engine that they hope will one day launch rockets into space.  We`re in Maine, far from NASA`s more commonly used launch pads in Cape Canaveral. The company`s rocket fuel isn`t typical either.  DERI:  It`s a fuel that can be made not only in farms across America but across the world. It`s a solid substance. It`s benign. It`s not toxic. You   can literally eat. It it`s not calorically beneficial to humans, but it won`t do any harm to you.  CRANE:  If blue shift can get carbon neutral bio-derived non-toxic fuel to work, it could be a far more earth friendly way of getting to space. But   first, they have a long series of engine tests ahead of them, one of which we`re here to hopefully see.  DERI:  This is just one of dozens of tests we will have. But if all goes well, this burn will last for about 12 seconds and shut down. And if we`re   really lucky, nothing will catch on fire. CRANE:  Can you walk us through how you make your biofuel and what this process is like? DERI:  To produce the fuel, we have to liquefy it, and it`s basically poured into a mold. It`s actually put into sort of a centrifuge of sorts. CRANE:  But it`s edible so is it made of food? DERI:  It is not something that you would normally have in food. You know, I can`t say it`s the most delicious thing in the world to eat. CRANE:  I`m going to sit here and make sure you swallow that. Blushift wouldn`t say exactly what`s in the fuel but told us that the core of the fuel is derived from common agricultural processes on farms around   the world. DERI:  I really wish I`d take a much smaller bite. CRANE:  Historically, the environmental impact the space industry makes is small compared to other industries. But rockets can be particularly harmful   to the environment. They can emit large amounts of CO2 and black carbon or soot among other pollutants, and with the number of rocket launches   expected to increase dramatically in the coming years, science experts say it`s important we find a solution involving carbon neutral sustainable   fuel.  Of course, Blushift has to get to space first from Maine. DERI:  Yes, here comes the sun. All right. All right. It was for sure. So something clearly happened. I don`t know if it was a system automatic shutdown or one of the guys shut it   down because they saw some anomaly happening. All right, guys, was that a manual shutdown or an automatic? What we just saw happen was a successful ignition. We saw the oxidizer ramp up. We saw   some initial instabilities and then the system shut down automatically.  However, in that very short period of time, we saw -- it looks like about 50 kilonewtons of thrust. Not bad. Not bad. In fact, it`s the most powerful   engine test we`ve had yet. CRANE:  The old third time`s a charm didn`t hold up this time, but two months after CNN`s visit to the company`s test facility, Blushift`s team   figured it out and had their third successful engine test. There`ll be plenty more to come if they were to get to space. After all, it is rocket   science. DERI:  There`s a lot of talk about getting off this planet and changing other ones. If anything, let`s work on fixing this planet, treat it right   before we can worry about dressing up other planets. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s "10 out of 10", we`re heading to a meeting of British politicians. Why you might ask? Because the speaker was the world`s first   ultra realistic humanoid robot artist. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AI-DA, ROBOT ARTIST:  Technology can be both a threat and an opportunity for artists creating art. I do not have subjective experiences despite   being able to talk about them. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  I`ve bot to admit, that`s pretty impressive. This robot called Ai-Da spoke to UK politicians about the effects of technology on the creative   industry. Not only can the bot give speeches, it can write poems and sketch drawings, too.  At one point, the robot`s computer went to sleep though and needed to be reset by its inventor. Nobot is perfect. None of you ever fall asleep in   the middle of class, right? Right. Okay. Wake up now. It is time to get rolling. But before I go, I want to give a special shout out to San Miguel Middle School in Providence, Rhode   Island.  From me and my team, have a wonderful weekend, everyone. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10.  It`s been a blessing to share this week with you. END     

Date: 2022-10-17
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, everyone. Welcome back. I hope you had a great weekend. I`m Coy. I`m here to help you start your week off right,   fuel your mind with important thought-provoking news while having a little bit of fun, too, right here on CNN 10. Let`s start with a quick look at the news out of Saudi Arabia. Tensions between the Middle Eastern nation and the United States increased last   week. This comes after the Saudi-led OPEC the organization responsible for exporting petroleum announced that they would cut the output of oil by   million barrels per day and that would, of course, increase the price per gallon ultimately hurting our pockets. The U.S. had been pressuring Saudi   Arabia to postpone that move.  The timing is difficult for President Biden because the midterm elections in the U.S. are only weeks away and inflation and the price of the gas pump   will be at the top of many voters` minds. The Biden administration asked Saudi Arabia to postpone the decision to cut gas production until after the   midterms, a decision for which many are criticizing Biden.  The U.S. has suggested that the increased prices could help Russian President Vladimir Putin continue to fund his war in Ukraine. In response,   Saudi officials have said the decision to cut production was designed to stabilize the markets, not for political reasons.  The White House has now said that it would look for additional ways to reduce Saudi Arabia`s control over energy prices. The U.S.-Saudi   relationship is viewed as a key pillar for regional stability in the Middle East. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: While not constant, the speed of sound is typically how fast? Ten thousand miles per hour, 760 miles per hour, 86 miles per hour, or 186,000 miles per second? Air temperature changes this, but the sound barrier can typically be broken at around 760 miles per hour. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Next, we introduce you to Felix Baumgartner. He`s celebrating the 10-year anniversary of his record-breaking skydive. He was on top of the   world, an unbelievable 135 feet, that`s four and a half Mount Everest high and he became the first person ever to skydive at a supersonic speed.   That`s a long way since the inventor of the parachute Frenchman Andre- Jacques Garnerin used a canvas canopy in a small basket to drop from beneath a hot air balloon in 1797.  Meet Felix Baumgartner speaking with CNN "World Sport" anchor Patrick Snell.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) FELIX BAUMGARTNER, SET RECORD FOR HIGHEST SKYDIVE:  On the 14th of October 2012, I was all the way up in a capsule, you know, 135,000 feet above the   ground, not knowing what this journey is going to go. But it was such a breathtaking moment, once I opened that capsule door and stepped outside,   you know, and then I looked around and I could see black sky, and also saw the curvature of the Earth, you know, knowing now I have to do the speed   leap into the unknown because nobody ever did a skydive at supersonic speed. I was the first one and it brings back a lot of good memories. PATRICK SNELL, CNN WORLD SPORT ANCHOR:  Let`s get to that special moment that historic moment. We see that jaw-dropping image, Felix. We see when   the door slides open, that amazing view. You say, at one point, I think you say you wish you could have actually had more time up there --   BAUMGARTNER:  Yeah. SNELL:  -- before you jumped on reflection. I mean, to those of us who can only ever dream of being in that place where you were, can you even begin   to describe what it`s like? BAUMGARTNER:  First of all, believe it or not, I was super happy that the door opened, you know, because it could also be that the door is freezing   so I cannot out that door. And once I was outside, I was really trying to inhale that moment because we have been working so hard.  Just think about it, when I started skydiving at the age of 16, this is where my journey already started without knowing where it goes, you know?   But 35 years later, I`m standing there on top of the world outside of a capsule in the stratosphere, and I say what I had to say sometimes, you   have to go up to understand how small you are. And then I said, I`m coming home now. I`m coming home now. And then I was on my way -- accelerating to 890 miles an hour in just a little bit more than seconds. It was a very breathtaking moment. SNELL:  Look, it wasn`t all smooth, was it, though because despite breaking the sound barrier, you`re then spinning out of control, right? At that   point, how alarming was it all and how helpless did you feel? BAUMGARTNER:  That was a very alarming moment because there is no protocol, there`s nothing that they teach you even if we did a perfect preparation   for all those years so I had to find out on myself. How did I do this? By trial and error, you know? I was moving my arms and legs around trying to   figure out what will stop that spin. But you have to keep in mind at that altitude, it`s almost a vacuum so there`s no air. It`s like sailing without   wind means your skills do not work.  And that at around 90,000 feet, there`s a thicker layer of air that helps you a lot. I was able to use the thick layer of air to control myself. Once   I turned around, I was stabilized as a rock, and from that moment on, this was actually the first moment where I started to enjoy my skydive.  And once I opened my parachute and I opened my visor, this was the first moment after seven hours where I was breathing outside air. So it was   reconnected to the outside world and that was a very happy moment. SNELL:  And then we see you make this perfect, perfect landing and we know that was so important to you. But, of course, the realization at that   moment that your life changed forever as well at that point, right? BAUMGARTNER:  As a skydiver, you never worry about your landing. You just land, you know? But knowing that the whole world is watching, you want to   have the perfect landing, you know? That`s why I was so worried about my landing. But I nailed it. You know, I was happy when I landed. The only thing that I didn`t know when I landed is did I break the speed of sound, because you   know once you`re in free fall, you know you`re fast but you have absolutely no indication of how fast you actually are.  So when I landed, the record verification guy showed up, he took my chest peg off. This was this big white box that I was wearing part of my chest   and inside, that was the record verification device.  He took it. He disappeared in a tent. He plugged it in the computer. It took about 10 minutes. I was waiting outside and after 10 minutes, he came   out and said, hey, thumbs up. You were even faster than the speed of sound. And at that moment, I was really happy and satisfied because to me, breaking the speed of sound as the first human in history, that was   definitely something. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Now for today`s 10 out of 10. A pup that deserves a round of a-paws, a black Lab named Maverick in South Texas was stopped dead in his tracks   for more than a minute when he ran into some -- wait for it -- cats. But not real cats. We`re talking Halloween decoration cats. I`m not kitten.  The question is, was he frozen because he was ready for the hunt or because he was afraid that he was being hunted?  More now from CNN`s Jeanne Moos.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  This may look like a decorative dog standing in bed five Halloween decoration cats. But the dog   is real, a lab by the name of Maverick.  ADAM FLORES, MAVERICK`S OWNER:  He was just like frozen. I mean, it`s like somebody just like frozen in place. MOOS:  Maverick`s owner Adam Flores says it was the first time the dog saw the cats. He stopped in his tracks -- in their south Texas front yard as   Adam, his wife and even his five-year-old daughter cracked up. FLORES:  Maverick --   (LAUGHTER) MOOS:  He looks like you paused him, commented one TikToker. Joked another, I think your dog is broken to do a hard reset refer to owner`s manual.  And only after more than a minute of paralysis did Adam manage to break the spell.  FLORES:  Hey, it`s okay, dude. MOOS:  His catatonic tail woke up first.  Someone pointed out Lab thinks he`s a pointer.  So we showed the video to Justin McGill (ph) who breeds pointing labs at Hunter`s Point Kennel in, Iowa. Was Maverick pointing or was he petrified? JUSTIN MCGILL, HUNTER`S POINT KENNEL:  I don`t know if he was pointing. He wasn`t scared. His body language, his tail was medium. He wasn`t tucked   between his legs.  He didn`t have any control over that. That`s just total instincts. He walked out the door, saw that and locked up. MOOS:  Unlike an English pointer, labs are not known as pretty pointers when they spot prey. The point is, don`t call Maverick a scaredy cat.  Jeanne Moos, CNN --   FLORES:  It`s okay, dude. MOOS:  -- New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Poor maverick, had a rough day. Hey y`all, hey, we love your positive cattitudes and all the love you`re giving us in the comment section of our YouTube page. So we`re showing you   some love right back. Special shout-out to Priceville Junior High School in Decatur, Alabama. We see you and we thank you.  Now go on out and do the little things that make this world a better place. I`m Coy and this is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-10-18
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Happy Tuesday. I`m Coy. Grateful to be spending part of my day right here with you on CNN 10.  Great show for you today so let`s go. Now, we`re going to begin by taking you to the most populated country in the world. This month, the communist party in China is holding the most   important event in its political calendar, the election of its new leadership.  The process takes place once every five years and begins with 2,300 delegates from across China who gathered in the Chinese capital of Beijing.   They also conduct other government business including amending the country`s constitution and approving their policy directions for the next   few years. China`s President Xi Jinping is likely to retain power for an unprecedented third term as secretary general. Let`s take 10 to break down the takeaways of a nearly two-hour speech made by the Chinese president on Sunday.  President Xi said he will not back down from China`s zero COVID policy and that he doesn`t regret the decision to implement the highly criticized   policies. The president stressed economic improvement and better growth for the nation. The biggest applause of the day came when President Xi   discussed reunification of the country, including taking control of Taiwan peacefully or otherwise.  This year`s Congress is the 20th since the communist party of China was founded in 1921.  In a communist system, countries believe the government or the whole community owns the shared wealth that they create. These systems are often   criticized for being authoritarian and for their record on human rights violations. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which of these college degrees is considered the highest level of academic degree? Master`s, associate, doctoral or bachelor`s? The doctorate degree is the most advanced diploma symbolizing that a person has mastered a specific area of study. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Now, the college experience comes in all shapes and sizes. Some students choose to go to school out of state. Others stay at home and   commute day to day. Other students attend online. I want to introduce you now to CNN hero DeAnna Pursai who`s the founder of the College of Adaptive Arts. DeAnna created this collegiate experience in   2016 for adults with special needs inspired by her sister Angel. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DEANNA PURSAI, CNN HERO:  Getting some good stuff. Angel is my sister. She`s roughly one year my junior so we grew up almost like twins in rural Indiana.  When she was born, my parents were told that Angel would never be able to walk or talk or clothe herself or feed herself because she had Down   syndrome. We were forever just connected at the hip. She was my forever playmate.  I just knew Angel is living the good life like me and we were just kind of parallel living lives and the first summer I came home from college, she   was sitting around at home and she wasn`t working. You could do this. Could I do this one? Knowing how drastically her options changed once she was mandated out of the school system at age 22. It was painful. I felt a lot of guilt because truthfully I truly believe in my heart of hearts that she is so much more intelligent than I am in most ways that   matter. My sister`s story is very much the norm. College of Adaptive Arts is a lifelong, equitable collegiate experience for adults with special needs of all differing abilities who historically   haven`t had access to college education.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Now, how about someone out here? What is up with this warm color spectrum? Jenny? PURSAI:  We started out in 2009 with one class and 12 students, and we`ve essentially just listened to the students about what they want out. And so, now, we have 10 schools of instruction and they get the same access to the array of classes that any college student can select. We are now on the campus of West Valley College. They get to go and hang out with student union or get some coffee or walk around campus. It feels   like inclusion at its finest. Our college accepts adults at age 18. And our oldest adult now is 73. There is no age out limit and that was very intentional because I would see my   sister as an adult. See these finite programs, and when they`re done, I`ve seen firsthand how they revert back to the loneliness and the isolation. I am so humbled each and every day by their depth and ideas and ways to make the world a better place. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next up, towns across America are hiring new firefighters in herds and they don`t look like you`d expect them to because they`re goats. These   furry four-legged firefighters munch on dry brush, low-hanging branches and weeds, helping to clean out and landscape fire prone areas. It`s a   sustainable and natural way to prevent fires if you will without using pesticides and energy consuming machines. Whatever floats your goat. CNN weather anchor Derek Van Dam has more. (BEGIN VIDSEOTAPE) DEREK VAN DAM, CNN WEATHER ANCHOR (voice-over):  As a mega drought rages on across the western U.S. with seemingly no end in sight. The owners of these homes are in a desperate situation. They`re trying to prevent wildfires from burning down their house, and they`ve turned to   goats for the solution. That`s right, goats.  This is a trip of goats. Quite literally, this herd is here to feast on all of this dry brush. Weeds and low hanging branches like this can act as lighter fluid for a fire moving up a steep hillside. The goats eat it up, creating a line of   defense for local firefighters.  ADRIAN ABEL, ANAHEIM FIRE AND RESCUE:  They do an excellent job of clearing some of the stuff that we would be doing out here doing a fire fight. If   you had taller grasses, underbrush, this increases the intensity and heat that that fire is going to put off. VAN DAM:  And the danger to your personnel. ABEL:  It`s correct, the danger to our personnel and our firefighters. VAN DAM:  This herd belongs to Alissa Cope. Her company Sage Environmental is betting that goats can help solve some key environmental problems. ALISSA COPE, SAGE ENVIRONMENTAL:  Goats love to eat. They can eat four hours, five hours, sit down and rest digest they have four stomachs. Get   back up again and continue eating. VAN DAM:  And they`re nimble and fearless they can hang out along treacherous areas, reaching locations too dangerous for landscapers and   firefighters. Their work has proven to be extremely valuable. Have you witnessed a fire actually stop at the defensible lines that the goats have put in? LINDSEY YOUNG, ANAHEIM FIRE AND RESCUE:  We will actually see helicopter shots where you can tell where the fire was stopped along that defensible   space line. So we see the evidence that it`s working and we`re really proud to continue that effort. VAN DAM:  That`s exactly what we saw in 2019 when the Easy Fire northwest of Los Angeles spread dangerously close to the Reagan National Library. But   goats had been there before and the space they cleared helped prevent the building from going up in flames. Easy now. Buy me a drink first. Hey, you`re not going to eat my shirt. This was an expensive shirt.  As you can tell by now, goats love to eat. But they really love to munch on invasive weeds. Targeting this type of non-native vegetation can help   eradicate it from an area so that the right plants can grow. It`s being referred to as goat-scaping and it`s quickly becoming a go-to   environmentally friendly and natural way to landscape around the country. COPE: A weed whacker is a machine that goes back and forth back and forth and it spreads the seed everywhere. This herd will eat an acre a day,   ingest all the seeds. The seeds will come out non-viable. And why that`s critical is that it breaks the cycle of the more aggressive plants   regrowing every year.  VAN DAM:  Fighting fires and saving the environment. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right. We`re running out of time, but before I go, my favorite part of the day, a special shout out to Sussex Consortium in Lewes,   Delaware. Go Vikings!  We hope that you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one. I`m Coy. You rock and we`ve already begun creating the next show just for you. See you tomorrow on CNN 10.  END     

Date: 2022-10-19
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Wonderful Wednesday to you. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10 and we got a rendezvous with the news. But before we do, I have to ask, raise your hand if you have a Halloween custom picked out yet. I do. Any guesses? No, it`s not Mr. Clean, Agent 47   or handsome Squidward, though, I would rock those with pride. Hit me up on TikTok and Insta @CoyWire with your best guesses or even some suggestions.  All right. Let`s get this show started.  Finland, a country in northern Europe that shares an 800-mile border with Russia is taking steps to join NATO. This after decades of the nation   maintaining independence. NATO, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization is a military alliance between 30 countries and members agree to help one   another if they ever come under attack. After Russia invaded Ukraine, Finland decided to join. There`s history here, too, as Finland was invaded   by the Soviet Union in 1939 in what was named the winter war, which happened at the beginning of World War II. During the conflict, Finland   faced massive artillery bombardments from the Soviets.  We`re going to travel now to the Finnish capital of Helsinki, where CNN correspondent Nic Robertson takes us on an underground tour a city that has   more than 5,000 bunkers design to protect its citizens from attacks.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  Question is, when is a parking garage not a parking garage? ROBERTSON: And the answer is, when it`s part of a tunnel and bunker network to be used in case of war. And there is one country threatening that war,   potentially, the big threat, Russia. (voice-over): Tomi Rask, Helsinki city rescue department, is going to show us around. TOMI RASK, HELSINKI CITY RESCUE DEPARTMENT:  We`re going to see and see that main entrance --   ROBERTSON:  Twenty meters, 60 feet below ground, cut into Helsinki`s bedrock. ROBERTSON:  How quickly can you put this together, in case of war? RASK:  In 72 hours.  ROBERTSON:  And 6,000 people in here. How many people can you fit in shelters in the whole of Helsinki? RASK:  Over 900,000. ROBERTSON:  So that`s enough for the population plus visitors? RASK:  Yes, yes, it is. ROBERTSON:  The government has been building bunkers here since the 1960s, 5,500 in Helsinki, more than 50,000 across the country, enough for 80   percent of the country`s 5.5 million population. ROBERTSON:  Deeper and deeper. RASK.  Yes. ROBERTSON:  But the scale of it, not the only surprise; some of it is open to the public. ROBERTSON:  What`s this? RASK:  For a ball game. ROBERTSON:  This is a bunker with a sports hall? Oh, my goodness. ROBERTSON:  Much of it dual use to offset the costs. RASK:  So this is one example of our dual purpose use of the shelter. ROBERTSON:  Dual purpose, yeah. So sports, every day of the week, time of crisis, what happens here? RASK:  All the sporting goods are stacked away. All these halls, these sheltering halls are divided by smaller sheltering rooms. ROBERTSON:  And not just sports halls, children`s play areas, possibly the safest in the world; cafes, even a swimming pool. ROBERTSON:  Just a sheltering hall but with a pool? RASK:  Yes, with an Olympic-sized pool. ROBERTSON:  Olympic-sized? OK, wow. Wow. But everything here with one purpose in mind: glass doors, gas barriers, decontamination areas. And now, it`s a car park. RASK:  It`s a car park. ROBERTSON:  Again. RASK:  Again. ROBERTSON:  That`s a quite bizarre feeling. RASK:  Yes. ROBERTSON:  One minute you`re preparing for a wall, the next minute you`re playing hockey and now it`s a car park. RASK:  Yes. Here, you can see the different layers. ROBERTSON:  And before we leave, Rask shows us another shelter just begun. There is a hole in it, put explosives in, blow it and move forward? RASK:  Yes. ROBERTSON:  Thank you. RASK:  Bye. ROBERTSON:  Cheers, bye. Here come the traffic. This is what was like on the way out. Absolutely fascinating, intriguing. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next up, we`re heading to the Asian continent where the South Korean boy band BTS is in the news this week, but not because the popular band has   a new song out. It`s because the band and all its members are stopping to join the South Korean army. The nation requires all able bodied men to   serve at least 18 months in the armed forces by age 28, due to ongoing threats from North Korea. Fans are upset and I mean, they are hot. No new tours or music for BTS for several years. The plan is for the ban to get together again around 2025,   after all seven members complete their service.  The decision could also come with an economic cost. Analysts project that between 2014 and 2023, the group would have contributed $29.4 billion to   the South Korean economy. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  This announcement today has ended months of speculation. Will they? Won`t they? We now know that BTS will be   going into their mandatory military service. We heard from the label Big Hit Music saying, quote, they respect the needs of the country.  Now, this has been under speculation as I say, for months. This has been debated within the South Korean parliament itself, as to whether or not BTS   should be exempted or whether they should be carrying out their mandatory service. It is a conscription that all able bodied men between the ages of   18 and 28 do need to go and serve in the military. Now, it`s increased by two years, just a couple of years ago, for the age of 30, just for those who excel in popular culture and art. So, it did   defer somewhat the decision for BTS and gave them some breathing space. But the argument for the exemption is that there are some sportsmen who have won Olympics medals, Asian Games medals, who have been exempted from   military service. There`s also some classical musician, so award winning global musicians and singers that have been exempted as well. But it was decided and it was debated at length that BTS should go ahead. Big Hit Music saying, quote, both the company and the members of BTS are   looking forward to reconvening as the group around 2025.  So, certainly, the BTS Army as their passionate fans are known will be looking forward to that date.  Paula Hancocks, CNN, Seoul. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which of these animals is nicknamed the canary of the sea? Beluga whales, dolphins, stingrays or penguins? Beluga it is. Their rounded forehead, it`s flexible and capable of changing shape, allowing them to make noises such as a series of chirps, clicks and   whistles. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  No, my butthead could not do that.  For today`s "10 out of 10", we`ve got a story that will blow you away. Long distance travel for large cargo can be overwhelming, but not with Airbus   Beluga cargo jet. The Airbus which gets its name from its resemblance to a Beluga whale made a rare appearance on U.S. soil over the weekend. It   landed at the Kennedy Space Center.  CNN`s space and defense correspondent Kristin Fisher has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Behold the Airbus Beluga, making a rare appearance over American soil this weekend   with the special delivery to the Kennedy Space Center. The EuroStar Neo telecommunications satellite safely arrived in Florida, in a cargo bay in   this whale of a plane. The giant transporter is named for its resemblance, the Beluga whale. First rolled out in the `90s, the Beluga ST, was designed   to move oversized cargo across the globe, for military hardware to aircraft parts for its own fleets.  With a payload length of 39 meters, about 128 feet, it`s one of the only planes that could transport space equipment, and spotting the Beluga is a   treat for airplane enthusiasts. Aviation lovers in the U.S. got a look at this giant over the weekend for the first time since 2009, when it   delivered Europe`s tranquility module for the international space station.  And if you think this model is impressive, take a look at the Beluga XL. It has 30 percent more transport capacity than its little brother. But it only   flies the European skies for now. Kristin Fisher, CNN. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Whale. That`s all the time I have time for, for now. Had a killer (ph) time with you all.  But before I go, our favorite part of the day, a special shout-out to Frelinghuysen Middle School in Morristown, New Jersey.  I hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one. I`m Coy. This is CNN and I`ll see you tomorrow. END     

Date: 2022-10-20
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Is it just me or is this week kind of just dragging along? I mean, it happens sometime, right? And on the   positive side, it is Thursday aka Friday eve, and we`re going to make this day great.  I`m Coy. Grateful to be with you right here on CNN 10. And today, we`re going to talk about the strong U.S. dollar, discover a 19th century shipwreck and -- and a robotic cat serving up dumplings in   Brooklyn. Yeah, that`s what I said and that`s what I meant. All right. Let`s start with that strong U.S. dollar. Now what do I mean when I say the U.S. dollar is strong? Well, it means that Americans are   getting more bang for their buck compared to other currencies, like the pound in Great Britain or the yen in Japan.  In fact, the U.S. dollar hasn`t been this strong in 20 years compared to other major types of currencies. Well, give us an example of what it means,   Coy Boy. Okay, cool, you got it. So say you`re vacationing in France yesterday. Well, one U.S. dollar was actually worth a dollar and two cents when converted to a euro. Good news   if you`re a U.S. tourist, but not everyone benefits from a strong dollar. In the U.S., the tourism industry for example could take a hit because   tourists` money from overseas could be worth less, making everything here in the U.S. more expensive for them. You say, Coy Boy, how are the values of currencies determined anyhow? Good question. Well, it goes back to the concept of supply and demand. Right   now, global markets are considered to be in rough shape and not doing so hot. And when that happens, cash is often seen as a safe place to park your   money rather than the stock market where you might be more likely to lose it, right?  So investors right now have big interest in cash and are willing to pay more for a dollar. For more on what this all means for us consumers, let`s meet up with CNN reporter Matt Egan who interviewed a money expert. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER:  So what does a strong US. dollar mean for consumers? KRISTINA HOOPER, CHIEF GLOBAL MARKET STRATEGIST:  The strongest U.S. dollar can be a positive to consumers, especially because many consumers buy a   significant portion of their goods from overseas. You can argue that a strong USD is something of an inflation fighter for consumers, because they   are seeing some costs coming down in terms of goods.  The problem is for companies and again those companies that derive their revenue from outside the U.S. EGAN:  So if you`re an Apple or IBM or Nike, and you sell a whole bunch of stuff overseas, demand for those goods might be going down now. HOOPER:  Yes, for sure. Now, I think we can`t paint the situation with a broad brush because there are some companies that are likely to hold up   better where there`s less sensitivity to price changes. I mean that tends to be strong brands, unique products. But, yes, in general, those big   multinational companies will feel an impact.  EGAN:  And is that why the stock market has been acting concerned about the strong dollar. Is it that hit to corporate profits? HOOPER:  That`s certainly one of the concerns. I mean, let`s face it, we`ve got a lot of headwinds right now. So it`s the strong dollar and again that   is largely impacting the bigger companies, the ones with more foreign exposure. There`s certainly some companies in the S&P 500 that only derive   a smaller portion of revenues from outside the U.S. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: The Mississippi River starts in Minnesota and ends in which U.S. state? Mississippi, Louisiana, Texas or Alabama? Flowing into the Gulf of Mexico, the Mississippi River ends in Louisiana, and that`s where we`re headed next. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SUBTITLE:  A 19th century shipwreck was revealed in the drought-stricken Mississippi River.  Severe drought across the Midwest has shrunk the Mississippi River to record lows.  According to archaeologists, the wreck is believed to be a trading ship built in 1896 in Indiana. It`s believed a strong storm sunk the ship near Baton Rouge, Louisiana, in 1915. The wreck was first discovered in 1992 but remained largely buried until recently. CHIP MCGIIMSEY, ARCHAELOGIST:  They did some limited investigations and could look at very small pieces, basically start at two or foot wide parts   of it, trying to get understanding of how it was constructed and how old it was. SUBTITLE:  With drought conditions expected to continue, more submerged treasure could be uncovered. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Okay. For all you treasure hunters out there, now you know where to look next. Next up, let`s talk about what I`m sure is one of everyone`s favorite subjects taking tests specifically let`s talk the ACT, a standardized exam   used in many college`s admissions process is considered one of the benchmarks for college readiness. Well, this month, the non-profit that   gives the ACT exam released some jarring news, ACT scores for this year`s graduating high school class were the lowest they`ve been since all the way   back to 1991, and this is the fifth year in a row that the average scores have been going down. Why? Well, the report noted that several factors are impacting scores like the lasting effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, classroom disruptions, cyber   bullying, teacher vacancies and mental health challenges. Now, a separate education report last month pointed to declining math and reading scores   for nine-year-olds in the U.S. That report cited loss of in-person classroom time as the primary driver.  So going ahead and give a hoot and a holler or maybe a pat on the back for your teachers today. They might not always show it, but they love you. (MUSIC) WIRE:  All right. Have you noticed that robots are starting to pop up more and more. When I was in Beijing covering the Olympics earlier this year,   the media`s cafeteria was almost entirely robotic. Our food was even delivered by a series of conveyor belts and robotic claws that dropped down   from the ceiling.  Well, for today`s out of we`re headed to Brooklyn, New York, where a robotic cat is delivering dumplings at a restaurant and is even challenging   the human waiters who are kitten nervous, for real love. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHRIS AURIGEMMA, BROOKLYN RESIDENT:  I have not seen this type of waiter before. SHANNON GILLY, HIGH SCHOOL TEACHER:  I traveled from Staten Island specifically to come here for the dumplings and to see the cute robot.  ROBOCAT BELLA:  Keep going. REPORTER:  At a Brooklyn restaurant, Dimmer and Summer, a cat robot delivers food, brings out takeout orders and helps collect dirty plates,   alongside human waiters. KENNEY MEI, OWNER, DIMMER & SUMMER:  I actually have a pet review yesterday in pogo (ph), a customer it was assigned to sit upstairs and they cannot   get a reach of the robot, and she`s not very happy about it. REPORTER:  Robocat Bella has been such a big hit that the owner is planning a new restaurant with no human waiters at all. MEI:  The robot never refuse your call and it will continue working until the store closed. We only required to be charged for five hours a day. REPORTER:  So can robots really replace human waiters in restaurants? We put both to the test to find out. (MUSIC) LEO TEN, GENERAL MANAGER AND WAITER:  Hello, how are you? Good morning. AURIGEMMA:  How you doing? TEN:  Doing good. When it comes to taking order, humans always the best. What can I get you today? We have conversation. You guys --   But the robot she just humming every time. The robot couldn`t take orders because that is not one of the function that the robot has. (MUSIC) TEN:  I can deliver food faster than the robot, but I don`t know if the robot can carry more plays than me. I think I feel pretty good with that. ROBOCAT BELLA:  I am the best waiter here. AURIGEMMA:  Could I have the check please? REPORTER:  That`s right, this robot cat cannot respond to requests about the check, but can deliver it once the waiter programs it to get to a   specific table. AURIGEMMA:  Can we just have the check please? TEN:  Sure. Here we go. AURIGEMMA:  Thank you. TEN:  I don`t think the robot can complete with me right now, but 10 years, 20 years later, I think the robots replace us no problem. AURIGEMMA:  I prefer the human waiter for the recommendations for what to eat. GILLY:  I don`t think I would say one is better than the other it was just the experience of seeing the robot waiter was a lot more exciting than the   human waiters. Sorry, no offense, but if I had to pick anything about my experience here, 100 percent the dumplings. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Yeah, then some good looking dumplings. But I thought the human server had a great cattitude. Good job, dude.  All right. Meow, it`s time for our favorite part of the day, giving some love back from whence it came. Special shout out to Chesnee High School in   Chesnee, South Carolina, and many thanks to you and everyone watching around the world.  Tomorrow`s Friday. I`ll see you soon. I`m Coy and this is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-10-21
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Oh, yes, lovely people. We made it. The weekend is upon us, and you already know Friday`s rock. We`ve had a big week,   learned and laughed a lot, and I`m ready to finish this week strong with you. All right. We start today with the breaking news out of the UK where British Prime Minister Liz Truss has resigned after just 45 days in the   role, making her the UK`s shortest serving leader ever. Truss`s resignation though is shaking up a country that has already had significant shifts in   power recently. Just last month, Queen Elizabeth II passed away. After 70 years on the throne, the queen was the longest ruling queen or king for   that matter in Great Britain`s history.  Now, why did Truss step down? In a press conference in London, Truss said it`s because she no longer believes she can fulfill the promises that she`d   originally made. The now former prime minister`s original plans were to supercharge the economy and help get it on better footing largely through   tax cuts. But that plan made many investors nervous, creating a lot of unrest in the UK`s economy.  So to the big question, who will replace the prime minister? We`ll likely have to wait about a week to find out. Another conservative leadership   election is expected to take place within a week and a new prime minister should be announced then. But for now, it`s not really clear who will   replace her. In other news around the world, let`s move over to Iran in the Middle East where protests in the country have been ongoing for weeks. Last month,   Mahsa Amini, a 22-year-old Iranian woman was taken into custody by Iranian police for apparently not wearing her hijab or headscarf properly. Iranian   law requires women to wear this head covering in public. While in custody, Amini died. The government of Iran said Mahsa died from illness but many   others in the country suspect she was killed by law enforcement.  Since her death, scores of people, many of them women have taken to the streets to protest the Iranian government for its strict laws and treatment   of women. In response, the government has been cracking down on protesters who they say have made the streets dangerous. For journalists, it`s been   extremely difficult to report on these weeks of protest from inside the country where the Iranian government has been accused of suppressing free   speech and the press. I`ll turn it over now to my colleague out of London, Nada Bashir, who`s reporting on the struggles journalists are facing in this historic moment   for Iran. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NADA BASHIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Women, life, freedom -- a rallying cry that is only growing stronger as protests in Iran entered that   fifth week, sparked by the death of 22-year-old Masha Zhina Amini, who died in the custody of Iran`s notorious morality police in September. But as the regime intensifies its brutal and deadly crackdown on protesters, it`s also scrambling to control the narrative, jailing at least   40 journalists since protests first began, according to the CPJ. YEGANEH REZAIAN, COMMITTEE TO PROTECT JOURNALISTS:  These are just estimation. I`m sure the correct tally is over 400. Several of the cases of   these journalists that we have covered as soon as they reported about those news on their Twitter channels, the next day they were arrested. BASHIR:  And just walk me walk me through the tactics being used by the Iranian regime, how are journalists in Iran being repressed? REZAIAN:  Security forces usually raid the homes of journalists after midnight in order to create an environment of scare and fear. They usually   transfer these journalists immediately to solitary confinement. In most cases, they don`t let the journalists have access to lawyer. BASHIR:  Much of Iran`s media is under state control, with journalists who reject the state`s narrative facing harsh penalties.  Among them, Niloofar Hamedi, one of the first journalists to break the story of Amani`s death in Iranian media. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We know that Niloofar Hamedi has been held in a solitary confinement. BASHIR:  Here in London, journalists at the pro-reform news outlet "IranWire" which has been working with CNN to cover the ongoing protests   are meticulously documenting the detention of journalists in Iran. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  One of them needs to be confirmed. BASHIR:  It`s a growing list with a concerning lack of clarity on where many of these journalists are being held. Among them are citizen   journalists bravely documenting the regime`s crackdown on their phones and on social media. MAZIAR BAHARI, IRANWIRE:  So for us, citizen journalists inside the country are the most important colleagues we have. And without them, we would not   be able to operate. These are the peoples who risk their lives in order to report. BASHIR:  With Internet blackouts being used by the Iranian authorities as a toll to stem the spread of information, the role of journalists on the   ground bearing witness to atrocities perpetrated by the Iranian regime is growing more important and more dangerous. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: What sport are you playing if your teammate says pass me the truncated icosahedron?  Basketball, American football, soccer or hockey?  In geometry, a soccer ball is considered a truncated icosahedron because it consists of 20 hexagonal and 12 pentagonal surfaces. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  For today`s "10 out of 10", it`s like break dancing but with a ball. Erlend Fagerli is like the Jackson Pollock or Vincent Van Gogh of soccer.   The newly crowned world champion freestyle footballer is redefining possibilities. Already with nine world titles, the 25-year-old is a beacon   of inspiration for anyone who has a dream to chase and he sat down with us to talk about his remarkable journey. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SUBTITLE:  Twenty-five-year-old Norwegian freestyle footballer Erlend Fagerli is one of the most established in the sport.  At the age of just 11, Fagerli realized it was what he wanted to pursue in life.  ERLEND FAGERLI, FREESTYLE FOOTBALL WORLD CHAMPION:  I watched together with Brynjar, my brother, we were watching some freestyle videos on YouTube. And   when we saw that it was as if something clicked inside of us, so we started trying some tricks. We saw that just gave us so good feelings and just kept   going.  SUBTITLE:  Years of work led him to become a nine-time world champion, but Fagerli says there`s more to the sport than just titles.  FAGERLI:  My biggest goal is always to try to improve in freestyle and to explore how good we can become. Of course, I`m very proud of it but the   most important part is to evolve the sport. SUBTITLE:  Fagerli trains twice a day to improve his freestyle football skills and conceptualize his routines. The trick to his creativity? Ten minutes of thinking. FAGERLI:  I have like a habit to do it every day and over so many years then. I think you can create so many things and even though you don`t come   up with anything new during those minutes, you have activated your mind and maybe you can discover something during the session. I think it really   helps to look at different things for example look at dancing or look at other freestylers. But as you move along in your freestyle career, I think   it`s very important to try to invent your own moves. SUBTITLE:  So what`s next for Fagerli?  FAGERLI:  Probably I will stop competing at the one time. I don`t know when yet but freestyle will always be a part of my life, of course. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  We have had a ball kicking it with you this week. Happy Friday, everyone, and keep in touch over the weekend. I`m @CoyWire on Insta, TikTok   and Snapchat. Before we go, we`re going to give a special shout out to Canyon City High School in Canyon City, Colorado. I`m Coy.  And remember, you are more powerful than you know, and it`s been a blessing to spend this week with you right here on CNN 10.   END     

Date: 2022-10-24
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. So good to be with you. I hope you had an awesome weekend. Highlight of mine was meeting one of you when I   was on a daddy daughter`s date at a ramen restaurant. Super cool you said. Hey, it really ramen a lot to me. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. Let`s start this week off strong. First up, we`re talking student loans. For years, the cost of college has steadily increased and today, more than half of students leave school with   debt. Tackling the growing amount of student loans in the U.S. has been a difficult challenge. One that`s been a hot topic in politics for years and   with good reason. Americans have $1.6 trillion in student loan debt. That`s more than they owe in credit card debt or car loans. In August, President Biden unrolled a   new plan that his administration says will help those borrowers.  Under Biden`s plan, if you make less than thousand dollars a year or two hundred and fifty thousand dollars for married couples, the government will   forgive ten thousand dollars of your previous student loan debt, meaning the government won`t make you pay back the money they gave you for school.   Now, the plan doesn`t apply to everyone and those who oppose it have said it`ll be a burden on taxpayers and that it doesn`t solve the root problems   of why Americans have so much student loan debt. Others feel like it`s not fair for those who never went to college in the first place. The Department of Education on the other hand estimates that 90 percent of the loans being forgiven will be for lower or middle income families making   less than seventy five thousand dollars, and supporters of the plan say if more people could be freed from paying off their debt, that money could go   back into the economy instead. Now, last week, the White House began officially accepting applications for the student debt cancellation program but on Friday a federal court of   appeals put a temporary hold on the program after six Republican-led states filed a lawsuit saying the president doesn`t have the authority to cancel   debt.  It`s a tricky subject so I`m going to toss it over to Camila Bernal in Los Angeles who weighs the pros and cons of forgiving student loan debt. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CAMILA BERNAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  It may take a little longer but Cody Hounanian is still expecting a third of his student loan to be   forgiven.  CODY HOUNANIAN, DIRECTOR, STUDENT DEBT CRISIS CENTER:  It`s a light at the end of the tunnel. BERNAL:  He`s referring to President Joe Biden`s student loan forgiveness program that would cover ten thousand dollars of his student debt because   while he`s been out of college for nine years, he still owes thirty thousand dollars.  HOUNANIAN:  I recently married me and my wife are going to be thinking about purchasing a home. So it`s all of a sudden kind of right in front of   me again because I`m thinking about the kind of debt I have and I need to finance my future and get a home. BERNAL:  But while the administration was expected to start granting loan discharges as early as Sunday a federal appeals court put a temporary   administrative holds on the program, a move being argued in and out of the courtroom.  USC economics professor Robert Dekle says that while all his students support the program he asked them to consider different perspectives. ROBERT DEKLE, PROFESSOR OF ECONOMICS, USC:  Relative to defense spending and the overall government budget, the annual cost is not huge. But there   is -- it`s going to be a burden on current taxpayers. BERNAL:  He also says if the goal is to help low-income families, the government should instead invest in say early childhood education. As an economist, Dekle says he thinks short-term loan forgiveness will only make inflation worse, but as a professor, he believes long term, this will   make the U.S. more competitive. DEKLE:  We need people with skills and the way to get it is in higher education. BERNAL:  And it`s that education that Hounanian says got him to where he is today, now the executive director of the Student Debt Crisis Center, a non-  profit focused on ending the student debt crisis. HOUNANIAN:  For me the only way to open the door was to take on student loan debt even though it`s created really unnecessary challenges and you   know we`ve had to be stressed and all that. But my future is brighter nonetheless. BERNAL:  Now, he`s not only waiting for his loan forgiveness, but also fighting so that others can also get the relief. HOUNANIAN:  My dream, my vision for a better America in the future is one where my kids don`t even have to consider student loan debt. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: In which of these African nations would you find Chobe National Park? Sudan, South Africa, Cameroon or Botswana? Chobe National Park is located in northern Botswana and is home to herds of elephants and Cape buffalo. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Next up, we`re going on safari and we`re not alone. Botswana`s Chobe National Park has people flocking like a herd of elephants, a tower of   giraffes, a confusion of wildebeest or a crash of rhinoceroses -- what a collective noun for your teachers be.  Anyhow, all the people are excited about the incredible wildlife in the region and that`s good for the local economy but it`s challenging the   environment. My colleague Bill Weir is learning how park rangers there are using more environmentally friendly equipment to help preserve the   ecosystem. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BILL WEIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Tourism is big business in Botswana, a landlocked country in southern Africa where wilderness and game   reserves are the main attractions. Of its approximately 2.3 million people, nearly nine percent work in the industry, with the majority of visitors coming to bask in the jewel of the   Kalahari, the Okavango Delta and its neighbor Chobe National Park. TSHEPISO VIVAN DIPHUPU, ENVIRONMENTALIST, CHOBE GAME LODGE:  Tourists, they`re traveling from very far places from their countries to come and see   our beautiful country. WEIR:  But while all that traffic can be good for the economy, it can come in a huge environmental cost, as waste pollution and an increasing number   of vehicles damage the health of the region`s ecosystem. BAINAME MAOME, SAFARI GUIDE, CHOBE GAME LODGE:  This is the lion trek. It`s heading to the west side. So it could be the lions that we saw down by the   riverside yesterday.  WEIR:  Here in Chobe National Park, home to Africa`s largest elephant population, Bainame Maome works as a guide for Chobe Game Lodge, the only   permanent property inside its borders and the first in Africa to use in electric safari vehicle and electric powered boat.  MAOME:  All this electricity that used to power the boats and the vehicles are generated in-house from the solar panel. Even when we are driving the   boats, the solar charges from the sun. It`s such a magical experience on electric boats because they are much more quiet than you can even hear birds calls and the animal calls like alarm   calls for those who are bed watchers is a great moment and you can easily approach most potentially dangerous animal like elephants and hippos   without even disturbing them. WEIR:  According to the lodge, the electric vehicles have helped them save over 2,500 gallons of diesel, reduce their carbon emissions by nearly 28   tons, and drastically cut back on an invisible but highly important issue in the natural world, noise pollution. DIPHUPU:  We can hear the noise from the other boats. You know, obviously, the diesel powered or petrol power, they make a lot of noise and then ours   are so silent. Of course, being driven in the water, they produce zero emissions.  So they`re so nice to maneuver around especially when elephants were swimming across, going to the other side. We can actually be close, you   know, a few meters away just to watch them. WEIR:  Earlier this year, the fully eco-tourism certified lodge took another step to ensure their credentials by appointing Tshepiso as their   first environmentalist and she says their sustainable practices extend across the entire property and beyond, from guest laundry services to up-  cycling waste products. For a population so reliant on the income that tourism brings, eco lodges like Chobe are vital in forging a path that can maintain and even boost   visit numbers, without damaging the very ecosystem that makes Botswana such an attractive destination. DIPHUHU:  It`s all about conserving and preserving what we have, you know, taking care of our environment, making sure we take good care of our flora   and fauna. That`s what matters most. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Okay. For today`s "10 out of 10", if you love playing cornhole or bags as some people call it you`ll like this one big time. Matt Brokaw from   Missouri made a beanormous cornhole board, it`s so big that you need a giant slingshot to toss the bean bags. It`s times larger than a standard   board and it even lights up at night.  Matt said he`d bean dreaming of it for a while and it took several months to build and now it`s getting a whole lot of attention. He thinks cornhole   will be an Olympic sport one day. Do you think you could be a cornhole Olympian?  Well, it`s bean a blast, and this show is almost in the bag, lovely people, and I can`t wait to hang with all of you and see what`s in the news for us   tomorrow. But before, I go I want to give a big shout out to Green Mountain Union High School in Chester, Vermont. Let`s all go out today and do the little   things that make this world a better place, even if it`s just a friendly smile. I`m Coy and this is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-10-25
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, everyone. Terrific Tuesday to you. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10, and we`ve got a rendezvous with the news. We`re going to start this show by taking a trip to the United Kingdom where there`s a new prime minister taking office this week.  Rishi Sunak represents the conservative party in England, and he becomes Britain`s third leader in seven weeks. His pathway to number 10 as in 10   Downing Street, where the prime minister lives, was cleared when other members of his party including former Prime Minister Boris Johnson pulled   out of the race Sunday night. Sunak was the only candidate able to secure the support of 100 conservative members of parliament, the necessary   threshold.  Rishi Sunak, the son of Indian immigrants and the first prime minister of color in the country`s history. And at 42 years old, he`s also the youngest   in more than 100 years. But his new position won`t be easy. Mr. Sunak replaces Liz Truss, the former prime minister of England, who resigned after only six weeks,   roughly 45 days in office. Sunak takes over at a time of widespread economic turmoil throughout the country, the financial markets have been   extremely volatile and the value of the United Kingdom`s currency, the pound, has tumbled downward.  This is a difficult time for any leader of Britain especially because the country is suffering from high inflation. The new prime minister will also   have to unify the country as calls from across the nation for another general election to select a new prime minister continue.  Next steps for the newly elected prime minister include a meeting with the monarch and for the first time, that`s the new king, King Charles III. He   ascended the throne last month after the death of his mother, Queen Elizabeth II. The queen appointed 15 prime ministers during her 70-year   reign on the throne. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: What is considered the most dangerous animal in the world? Black mamba, Nile crocodile, mosquito, or great white shark? While the Nile crocodile is considered the most aggressive, mosquitoes with over 100 trillion on the planet can carry lethal diseases, affecting up to   a million people a year. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  If you`re like me, you can`t stand mosquitoes. They buzz up on you take a bite without invite. They suck your blood like a vampire, not cool.  But have you ever noticed that some people aren`t bothered by mosquitoes at all? Well, scientists are discovering why some people are indeed mosquito   magnets while others aren`t.  Over the course of three years, researchers asked a group of 64 volunteers to wear nylon stockings on their arms for six hours a day. The research   team then placed two people stockings inside a chamber filled with mosquitoes giving them their choice of human scented stockings and that   helped determine which people were mosquito magnets and which were, quote, low attractors. Now the study found that molecular compounds were higher in mosquito magnets especially carboxylic acid on the skin. That`s found in the oily   substance that helps to keep our skin moisturized. The study found that certain odors play a role too. And research had already previously found   that body heat and the carbon dioxide we release when we breathe attract mosquitoes as well.  Scientists say that with better understanding, new and approved repellents could be developed in the future. Question, lovely people, how would you like to be hired by NASA to hunt aliens? If so, maybe someday you will. The space agency just announced that   a team of researchers has been formed to study UFOs. These professors, scientists and others are on a mission to explain the unexplainable. For more, let`s meet up with CNN space and defense correspondent Kristin Fisher. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT:  NASA has announced the team of people that will participate in its study of unidentified   aerial phenomena or UAPs or more commonly referred to as UFOs. And these people consist of astronomers, astrophysicists, biologists, former   Pentagon, NASA, former Federal Aviation Administration officials, and one very famous former NASA astronaut, Scott Kelly, who, of course, spent a   year in space. And these people are going to spend the next nine months or so really studying all of the unclassified data on UAPs and they`re also going to be   analyzing how the agency can better analyze and handle and catalog all of the data that`s coming in on this from civilian and commercial entities as   well.  And you know, there are quite a few government entities looking into the issue of UAPs. Congress has been looking into it, the Pentagon as well. So   why not NASA?  Well, NASA says it`s job since its creation really has been to you know try to explain the unexplainable and look at these very complicated things up   in our skies in space and try to figure out exactly what they are and how they work. So, NASA`s leadership believes that this fits squarely in their   wheelhouse.  And so, this is something that they this study is something that they announced back in July. They have just now announced the team members which   are getting ready to meet. And this study is set to begin officially on Monday. And then that team is expected to release its finding publicly   sometime in mid-2023. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next up, we want to introduce you to one of our CNN heroes, Kim Calichio. The former restaurant chef and her husband founded the Connected   Chef. They purchased fresh groceries wholesale and food from local farms to pack in grocery boxes for people in need. Let`s meet Kim and hear about how   the COVID-19 pandemic inspired her organization. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KIM CALICHIO, CNN HERO:  When you are a restaurant chef, everybody in your life also works in the restaurant because it`s an industry where it becomes   your life. So, in the beginning of the pandemic, we thought what is happening to our people.  As a restaurant worker, you were put out of work because your restaurant shut down. There was a community of individuals who did not qualify for   unemployment benefits or stimulus funding.  My business doing cooking and gardening classes completely halted and so I had no income at all myself. All right. We are ready. Do you guys want to set the table? My husband and I were like, at least I can get unemployment where there are five to 15 people that we know that aren`t going to have that. Is it good? Yeah? I had a choice to either sit here in my house and be overwhelmed because I was in the same situation, or I can do whatever it is that I could possibly   do. There was nothing to lose almost. We`re going to do two apples, the bunch of bananas, two tomatoes, one pepper and then for the greens, we`re just going to do one of each.  We started a GoFundMe to direct deliver groceries to families across Queens. And then these guys.   And within a week, we raised ten thousand dollars. We thought the pandemic was going to be over in two weeks. So, we were like we`ll spend this grand   and then we`ll go back to work and that never happened. We knew we were on to something. We were very efficient, and I think that`s our restaurant chef-ness. Everybody who started working with us, they were line cooks, so they knew how to do things quickly and efficiently.  The first week, we delivered 25 grocery packages to 25 families and within a month`s time, we were delivering four to five hundred groceries to   families every single week.  All right. We source 80 percent of the produce from local farms in New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania.  That`s super nice. Those are beautiful. They deliver food at our distribution center, and then we direct deliver those ingredients and packages out to families. For us, a measure of success is that a little over 126 households have come off of our free grocery program. Even if the pandemic completely goes away,   these people are still left in a really hard place. They weren`t making enough money two years ago.  So, until we`re able to create something that can be replicated in multiple communities, this work will continue. My hope is that we are working with   our community they feel happy to be a part of something that is collective. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And for today`s "10 out of 10", there`s a lot of anticipation around this brilliant photo. Believe it or not this is what an ant looks like up   close. Pretty terrifying, right? This image was captured by a Lithuanian photographer who previously photographed birds. He used reflected light to   capture this super close-up image of the ant. Sorry if this haunts any of your dreams tonight, you can`t spell haunt without the ant. All right. Did you know that today is National I Care About You Day. And on this day, I want you to know that I and my team we genuinely care about   you. We aim to inform, inspire and uplift you every day. Special shout out now to New Mission High School in Hyde Park, Massachusetts. I`m at Coy Wire on Instagram, TikTok and Snapchat. Be sure   to let folks know that you care about them today. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-10-26
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Wonderful Wednesday to you. I`m Coy. Grateful to be spending part of this day with you right here on CNN   10. Let`s start today with an update on the midterm elections in the United States. In two weeks, Americans will cast their votes for representatives   in Congress and candidates for state and local offices. As we`ve said, these elections are called midterms because they happen in the middle of a   president`s four-year term. Currently members from President Joe Biden`s political party, the Democratic Party, controlled both the U.S. House of Representatives and the   U.S. Senate but Democrats control both chambers by a thin margin. In fact, in the Senate, it`s currently a tie with Vice President Kamala Harris as   the tiebreaker vote. Let`s take 10 to break it all down in the House, there are 435 voting members elected every two years so every seat is up for re-election this   year. However senators are elected every six years, so about a third of those seats are up for re-election. Historically, lawmakers who are in the   same party as the president tend to lose seats in the midterm elections regardless of who the president is. Americans head to the polls to cast   their vote on November 8th.  If Republicans take the majority in one or both chambers, this would likely make for a more difficult road for President Biden`s Democratic agenda, the   remainder of his term. There`s a lot of attention on this election and you`ve likely seen the political advertisements, especially if you live in   a state with a tight race.  Early voter turnout for the 2022 midterms appears to be on pace to shatter the previous records set in 2018.   Let`s hear more now from CNN anchor and chief national correspondent John King who`s looking at three key Senate races that could determine which   party gains control in the New Year. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JOHN KING, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  The numbers tell the story better than any words can. The Democrats have a majority but just barely,   the vice president breaks the tie in the 50-50 Senate. The question is, can the Democrats keep that majority in a very difficult midterm election year   climate, 35 Senate elections in all.  Let`s look at three likely to determine which party controls this chamber come January. Let`s start in Pennsylvania. No incumbent here, Pat Toomey,   the Republican is retiring. Democrat John Fetterman versus Dr. Oz, you know him from TV, he`s the Republican candidate backed by Donald Trump. So let`s   go back in time, the 2020 presidential race, what will we look for on election night.  We will start over here in the Pennsylvania suburbs. The Democrats need to run it up here. Fetterman now the lieutenant governor was mayor of   Braddock, it`s out here near Pittsburgh. Can he do what Joe Biden did in say Montgomery County?  These are the suburbs outside of Philadelphia. Look at Joe Biden`s margins. That`s why he`s president of the United States. The suburbs win against   Trump in 2018, even more so in 2020. Can Fetterman match Biden in the Philadelphia suburbs? That is one key test.  The other question, the flip side of that is, can Mehmet Oz run like George W. Bush or George H.W. Bush did in these suburbs? They used to be   Republican suburbs or at least open to Republicans. Can Dr. Oz do that?  Let`s go down to another marquee race, Georgia. Marquee because you have a Democratic incumbent Raphael Warnock. Marquee because you have a football   hero, Republican Herschel Walker.  Interesting because you also have a libertarian candidate here and on Georgia on election night, if you don`t get 30 percent plus one, then we   have a runoff in December. So that`s one big thing to look for in Georgia.  What else do we look for? Just like in Pennsylvania, Joe Biden won Georgia because he won in the suburbs. Here`s Atlanta Democratic base, obviously,   Senator Warnock needs that. But how does he do in places like Rockdale County, moving away from Atlanta?  Traditionally, Republican or purple suburbs, they have become more Democratic especially in the Trump age. Can Senator Warnock get anything   like that or can Herschel Walker prove that he can contest for the suburbs? And just like Dr. Oz, as a newcomer to politics, Herschel Walker has to   prove if he is to win -- see all that red? That is Donald Trump`s strength in rural America. Can Herschel Walker in a place like Dodge County -- not a   lot of votes, it`s small but they add up if you win all these small counties by margins like that. Let`s come back to the Senate map and let`s move out west to the state the Democrats are most worried about and it`s a surprise.  Nevada, you have a Democratic incumbent here, she is a Latina. This is a state where the Latino vote is critical. So why is Democrat Catherine   Cortez Masto in some trouble? Number one, Laxalt is a big brand name in Nevada politics. So you have a very close race between the Democratic   incumbent and a very well-known Republican. To win Nevada, you have to win Clark County and you have to win big. Clark County is the home to Vegas. If you can see that up there, it`s nearly 75   percent. It`s around percent of the statewide population if you can run it up here, you can win.  It was reasonably close last time, right? Joe Biden just won Nevada that was a surprise to many Democrats. They thought he`d have a bigger margin.   Why? Donald Trump made inroads among Latino voters, especially male Latino voters.  So one of the tests is we watch the Senate race this time is can the incumbent, a Latina, dominate the Latino vote? That is critical. Or the   Republicans keep making inroads. That could make that one incredibly close as we move from east to Midwest to West and count the votes come election   night. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Baseplates, trucks and grip tape are key components of what activity? Slacklining, skateboarding, cycling or parasailing? Originally known as sidewalk surfing, the first commercial skateboards began appearing in 1959. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  All right. I think you all know me and my team well enough now to know that we love sharing stories that inspire and make us all reconsider   what we think is possible.  I introduce you now to Dan Mancina, a skateboarder who lost his eyesight at 23 years old due to a neurodegenerative disease. But his perseverance is a   reminder that when circumstances build up walls around us, we have to find ways to continue to build ourselves up within them because changing within   leads to changes without. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DAN MANCINA, SKATEBOARDER:  Add some O&M training which is orientation and mobility, that`s using the white cane, that really helped shift my mindset   and get some of my mobility and freedom back and self-confidence. SUBTITLE:  After quitting skating for a few years, Mancina found his way back to the sport.  He started filming short videos of his progress and posting them onto Instagram and YouTube. He then met a new group of people to skate with, eventually gaining enough confidence to return to the streets. MANCINA:  It was just kind of a slow, you know, dealing with, coping with, you know, my vision loss and starting to be comfortable and figure out who   I was again, got some training, started doing kind of all the things I would do in life before I lost my vision. Skating was one of those and then   just started -- yeah, I started very slow trying escape wearing one day and then posting some videos on it. SUBTITLE:  Now, Mancina wants to create a space where visually impaired people can enjoy the sport. He is currently building the first fully   adaptive skate park, which he says is set to open in 2023.  MANCINA:  I wanted to build like the first fully adaptive skate park kind of designed around visual impairments and stuff like that. It`s just like   the environment that has visual impairment as well as like WCMX, that`s the wheelchair motocross stuff in mind. Ledges are really long and quarter   pipes are really wide, so I`m just kind of more time to figure out where you are in the park, using a lot of like contrast is important for those   who have a little bit of residual vision between the ramps and the ground, so it`s easier to pick up and see. SUBTITLE:  He also wants to challenge misconceptions around blindness and how that affects opportunities for kids. MANCINA:  They should have access to everything just like every other child. So skateboarding is just one of those things. You know, it`s not for   everybody, but there are going to be those kids who want to skate, so yeah, equal opportunities for everybody. I enjoy skating so I`m going to do it. So I encourage people to kind of more think that way. You know, don`t let other people dictate your life and   decide what -- what you can and can`t do. You know, it`s all up to you, and it`s kind of the biggest thing. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And for today`s "10 out of 10", a dog on cute creation that deserves a round of applause. David Jensen was tired of riding his bike alone so he   got creative so that he could take his pups Salt and Pepper along for the ride. He got a long John a type of cargo bike then custom built a box for   the dogs, but he also made them some awesome goggles or shall we say goggles so the wind isn`t rough on their eyes. Where there`s a will,   there`s a way. All right all of you diamonds in the rough, it`s about that time, shout out time. A round of applause for Prairie Farm Middle School in Prairie Farm,   Wisconsin, we see you and we hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one. I`m Coy and this is CNN 10.  END     

Date: 2022-10-27
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, everyone. Bad news it`s only Thursday. Good news it`s Friday eve and we`re going to slay today. I`m Coy. This is CNN   10, and we have a powerful show for you today. And we start with the ongoing and devastating situation occurring in Nigeria in West Africa. A month ago, the country experienced its worst   flooding in a decade. Hundreds were killed as homes and businesses were submerged. Weeks later, the death toll has risen and communities remain   underwater, displacing more than one million people from their homes.  Victims of the flood blame the tragedy on the government`s response or lack thereof. Government officials say they released flood warnings ahead of the   disaster and advised residents to move to safer ground. There is a question as to whether those warnings even reach some communities and experts say   proper relief has not reached many Nigerians. Food is scarce in the country and difficult for many to afford. Nigeria`s economy is struggling. Inflation hit a 17-year high of over 20 percent in   August. This has further strained people`s spending power and capacity to relocate. People have lost everything and many survivors are living in   terrible conditions in camps and shelters with little to no government assistance. CNN correspondent Larry Madowo has been reporting on this for us on the ground in Bayelsa, Nigeria, where he`s seen firsthand the tragic events   that people there are facing. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Our communities still submerged nearly a month after the flooding began with no end in sight.   Boats have become the only way to get around much of Bayelsa State in Southern Nigeria. The streets have turned to rivers, driving entire   communities away from their homes.  We have really suffered, she says. Tell the government to help us. UGERE OBI, FLOOD VICTIM:  Again, tell them to come help us. MADOWO:  Everything you own is here under the water and this is your house? OBI:  Yes. Everything. MADOWO:  Some are living rough on the streets, washing with this water, cooking with it and bathing in it. Even people`s homes and businesses and livelihoods are already submerged, it`s still raining and there is more expected. The Nigerian government is   warning this could go until November, so even more of this. This is Nigeria`s worst flooding in a decade.  Aniso Handy has remained in this house through it all. ANISO HANDY, FLOOD VICTIM:  Nigerians are used to manage. If not, we would have all died. We have not seen this situation where people are not cared   for. But Nigerians care for themselves. We are just like infants that have no father, no mother. MADOWO:  The feeling of abandonment runs deep here. The victims are disappointed with the Nigerian government`s response which hasn`t declared   the flood a national emergency. The floods have affected 33 of Nigeria`s 36 states partly due to well above average rainfall.  Bayelsa is among those cut off from the nation with major highways underwater. The situation has been exacerbated by poor drainage   infrastructure and an overflowing dam in neighboring Cameroon.  But with a warmer climate causing more intense rainfall, authorities have also blamed it on climate change, angering some Nigerians. In this community though, there are more short-term consequences. It`s a tough life to navigate for humans and animals alike, but life must go on.  Larry Madowo, CNN, Bayelsa State, Nigeria. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next up today, a debate around driverless cars. Are they safe? Are they needed? Are they helpful?  Well, what do you think?  The technology continues to be tested in various cities around the U.S. and one company called Waymo just announced it`s planning to launch robo taxis   in one of America`s most populated cities, Los Angeles. They`ve already been tested in Phoenix, Arizona, and San Francisco.  We`re talking fully autonomous or self-controlled driverless rides relying on detailed maps and sensors to navigate their surroundings. Proponents say   these electric vehicles would provide more eco-friendly modes of transportation, while opponents of safety concerns and say that technology   is not quite ready to be taken mainstream. CNN transportation editor Michael Ballaban gives us a glimpse now at a recent experience he had with the full self-driving technology available in   a Tesla. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MICHAEL BALLABAN, CNN TRANSPORTATION EDITOR:  Oh, we`ve got a situation in front of us. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Oh, no, we`re going on the wrong side of the   road. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Nope, nope, nope. It wanted to hit the truck.  This is a Tesla model 3. So we are turning on the full self-driving beta. Okay, the car is now officially technically sort of driving itself. Whoa,   whoa, that was a really sharp turn the car just tried to make. Oh, we`ve got a situation in front of us. Whoa. Okay, what we just had in front of us was a UPS truck coming onto our lane. We had a guy in front of   us with a cargo bike. To avoid hitting the guy on the bike, the car seemed to want to put us straight into a giant UPS truck. I would prefer not to hit a UPS truck today. So I took over. It does seem to need an interruption every couple of blocks or so. Sometimes if the car   is hesitating a little bit I have to intervene. You also have to be ready to take over at any time. Now, this is challenging. Oh, no, we`re going on the wrong side of the road. We`re not trying to make this car screw up. We`re not trying to have a laugh at Elon Musk`s suspense. That`s not the point. We`re really just   trying to see how it handles driving in the city.  So far, it`s going okay. We`re going down a pretty just straight normal road. There`s not a lot of pedestrians here and when you`re going down a   straight road with not a lot of pedestrians, the car actually seems to be doing okay. We`re doing right around the speed limit. You know, we`re not   hitting anything.  The car can see cones. The car can see trucks. The car can see even pedestrians on the other side of the street.  Seeing might not be totally the issue here, it`s knowing what to do in challenging situations, stuff that experience teaches you. A lot of people   have issues with this being called full self-driving. First and foremost, it`s not fully self-driving, I have to sit here. If it was fully self-  driving as promised that would let you take a nap, while you`re driving along.  You know, it does seem to be making all the drivers upset. It`s the people behind us it`s the people honking. Now I`m not saying of truly fully   autonomous car will never happen but I think at this point we`re still years away. SUBTITLE:  Tesla did not respond to CNN Business` request for comment. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  I like to think of myself as a fun guy, but I`ve got nothing on these guys. Did you know that mushrooms are the largest life forms on the   planet? Yep, they expand and grow underground with interconnected fibers called mycelium, looking for food, often nutrients from soil and trees,   alive or dead. In fact, the largest living organism on Earth right now is a single honey mushroom in the Malheur National Forest in Oregon. It`s three and a half   miles wide about 2,500 acres, and it`s believed to be about 2,400 years old. Now, that`s a humongous fungus and that`s random. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  All right. Halloween is exactly two peace signs days away, and I am loving your costume suggestions that you`ve been sending me on Instagram,   Snapchat and TikTok. Lex Luthor, Mr. Clean, keep them coming. I`m @CoyWire there. And speaking of TikTok, 73-year-old sensation Barbara "Babs" Costello has given folks pumpkin to talk about. Carving tips like sprinkling cinnamon in   there to treat your olfactory senses. Oh my gord. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BARBARA COSTELLO, TIKTOK SENSATION:  I`m going to remove all those nasty strings the easier way. SUBTITLE:  This 73-year-old TikTok sensation gave us some hacks on how to improve the spooky season.  In a new video, Barbara "Babs" Costello broke down the do`s and don`ts of pumpkin carving.  COSTELLO:  Hi, everybody. It`s Babs. Did your mom ever tell you the do`s and don`ts of pumpkin carving? SUBTITLE:  1. Carve the pumpkin from your lap. COSTELLO:  Don`t stand and carve your pumpkin. Sit. Just put them on your lap. SUBTITLE:  2. Carve from the bottom of your pumpkin. COSTELLO:  Now time to cut the bottom of your pumpkin, not the top.  SUBTITLE:  3. Use a hand mixer to clean out your pumpkin. COSTELLO:  Don`t do this. Use your hand mixer instead. Get all those strings cleaned up. Your mixer did the hard work of loosening all those   strings. SUBTITLE:  4. Use a red dry erase marker to design the face. COSTELLO:  When designing your pumpkin face, use a dry erasable red marker that you can get rid of the lines after you carve.  SUBTITLE:  5. Carve the design with a rubber mallet and a cookie cutter. COSTELLO:  If you don`t want to struggle using a knife to carve your pumpkin, just use a soft-headed mallet and your cookie cutter, and just   push it right through. Remove all your red lines. SUBTITLE:  6. Cover all surfaces with Vaseline to keep it fresh. COSTELLO:  Don`t let all your work go to waste. Those kids want to enjoy these pumpkins. Take Vaseline and rub it on all the open cut surfaces.   We`ll keep your pumpkin moist won`t dry out as quickly, and it should last about one to two weeks.  SUBTITLE:  7. And finally, sprinkle some cinnamon. COSTELLO:  And if you want a beautifully scented jack-o-lantern, try sprinkling some cinnamon right on the top and over the candle she goes and   she smells delicious. Happy Halloween. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right. You gorgeous creatures, today is National Civics Day, celebrating the importance of civic education as a foundation for a strong   democracy.  And we want to give a strong shout out now, Walnut Cove, North Carolina, Southeastern Stokes Middle School. Rise up and have an awesome day.  It`s almost Friday. See you tomorrow. I`m Coy and this is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-10-28
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, hello, hello. You made it. The weekend is almost here and you already know Fridays rock, especially when it`s a   hallow weekend. Hope you`re getting into the Halloween spirit.  I think my daughters have chosen my costume and I`m pretty sure it involves a Disney princess. I`m your boy Coy. This is CNN 10. And we`re going to start this show by sending a special shout out to Kokomo, Indiana. Bon Air Middle School, rise up.  Did you know that the state motto for Indiana is "crossroads of America"? Very fitting because today we`re going to bring you on a ride with us.  Welcome to a special edition of CNN 10 where the topic of self-driving cars is in the hot seat. Yesterday, I told you about a new pilot program of   fully autonomous robot taxis in Los Angeles, and it got us to thinking about the future of this technology.  Fully autonomous vehicles do all the driving without any input from humans. They rely on detailed maps, GPS, cameras, radar and artificial intelligence   to navigate their computer-powered journeys.  Manufacturers worldwide are investing in this technology. It`s said to be eco-friendly and it could offer an affordable mode of transportation for   non-car owners. And some believe that computers will be safe for drivers than humans. But there are a lot of questions. There are concerns about safety and the readiness of this technology. There have been court fights, injuries, even   deaths caused by self-driving technology. And some privacy advocates are concerned that your every movement and destination can be tracked. Who gets   access to this information? It does seem though that the world is moving closer and closer to fully autonomous vehicles becoming mainstream. Some wonder if humans will even be   driving vehicles at all in the future. So, for today`s show, we`re going to take a look at what a completely driverless world in the future could look like. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORTER:  Americans love their cars. Getting my first car was one of the happiest days of my life and I`ve loved driving ever since, especially fast   cars. Uh, yeah, that`s not actually my car but hey look this is my story and I can dream if I want to.  But what if I`m part of the last generation to get excited about driving a car? I`ve spent the last year traveling around the country talking to entrepreneurs, engineers and test drivers who are building the cars of   tomorrow and when they imagine the future, driving a car isn`t part of it. They envision roads full of cars driven by machines. Where traffic jams are   no more, where the death rate by car accidents drops to zero. The end of car ownership as we know it. Even to the point of human driving one day   becoming illegal.  I asked them all the same thing. What will the future look like and what will it take to get there? What I found was really exciting but also a bit   shocking. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  OK, so, as soon as I turn out of this parking lot, I`m going to engage self driving mode. All right, technically, we don`t need a   driver in the car. REPORTER:  So you and I are basically, in a way, just passengers now. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes. REPORTER:  We`re test driving the car powered by autonomous vehicle start- up, Drive AI, on the streets of northern California. It`s one of several companies working to utterly transform how we live. This test car could be   the prototype of an automobile that not only takes you out of the driver`s seat but creates a future where you might not need to own a car at all. At   least that`s what the people building them think. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Ownership will probably be abandoned. You mostly will have cars that we summon on our phone. The car will come empty to us and --   and pick us up and we get inside in front of our office or house and it drives us straight to the restaurant and there`s no time wasted with   parking. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  In a world of self-driving cars, the utopia of the future, the only thing operating in the city are driverless, electric,   emission-less vehicles. They can position themselves in a state where, you know, you or I hailing one from our smartphone has one there within a   minute. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We will look back and say wow, people owned cars to get from this point to that point. REPORTER:  Eliminating car ownership would drastically change the was we shape our cities. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The thing I`m most excited most about is the ability on the street to reallocate space away from the storage of vehicles. Right now   cars sit idle 94.8 percent of the time. I mean, that`s staggering and I think we could literally close 30, 40 percent of our streets to   automobiles. You don`t need cars on -- on neighborhood streets anymore. You just need them on the perimeter of your neighborhood. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  All those parking facilities today get turned into residential space or parks or offices or restaurants and we can kind of   give back the city to the people that live in it. Take it away from the automobiles, right?  And I think that they -- the quality of life and the opportunity to, kind of, reuse that space is going to be pretty magical. REPORTER:  Imagine it, never driving again.  The nation of muscle cars, NASCAR, and open road, you`re going to tell Americans they can`t drive? Well, eventually maybe. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  There may be a law in place that basically says 50 years from now, humans cannot drive on public roads and if a human does   want to drive, they go to a private car ranch where you can basically drive to your heart`s content. REPORTER:  All right. I know what you`re thinking, a car ranch? But it`s actually not that crazy. Remember when we transitioned from horses to   automobiles, we didn`t shoot all the horses.  Well, guess what? These car ranches actually already exist. Think of car companies that build high end sport cars that are meant to be driven by   humans, not robots. They`re already building driving courses around the country and yes they`re as fun as they sound. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We opened in May, 2015. You`ll come in, you`ll meet your -- you register and you meet your driving coach and then driving coach   will then take you onto the track. We believe this -- this destination that we`ve created has got a long term future. REPORTER:  Porsche knows that driverless technology is around the corner but they still want people to love driving even if they do less of it on   public roads.  All right, let`s get back to the real world. The rise of car sharing services has already made people accustomed to the idea of not owning a   car. Today, human drivers pick us up when we use Uber or Lyft, but that`s not going to last. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Autonomous ride sharing is absolutely coming. It is right around the corner, and you`ll see it in pockets at first and slowly   and surely you`ll start to see these vehicles all over the place. There is an opportunity on a long enough timeline where we may have a fleet that is   fully autonomous. As you start to see people adopt transportation as a service, the hope here is that cars will -- car ownership will slowly   decline. REPORTER:  All of these changes won`t come easy, perhaps the biggest fear, what will happen when all these robots get better at our jobs than we are?   Will they replace us? (END VIDEOTAPE) END     

Date: 2022-10-31
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey you! Hope you had a happy hollow weekend and you`re ready to trick go treat yourself later today. Can`t wait to see your   costumes. I`ve already been loving some of the bald dude costumes I`ve seen like the one from math teacher Allison Frank (ph) from Philly and some of you have   some serious vest game, we could be vesties.  I`m Coy. This is CNN. Let`s start this week off strong.  The midterms are one week away. On November 8th, Americans will cast their votes for representatives in Congress and candidates for state and local   offices. They`re called midterm elections remember because they happen two years into a U.S. president`s four-year term. Every two years, all 435   seats in the House of Representatives is up for election, while about a third of the 100-seat Senate are up for grabs.  Many states have aligned their elections on this schedule which means governors as well as various state officials, local positions and   government initiatives are on the ballot. The main question on everyone`s mind is, will Democrats maintain control of the Congress for the remainder   of this presidential term? Or will Republicans take control of one or both chambers of Congress?  Then, what about those races for governor and state legislatures? We`ll hear now from CNN national politics reporter Eva McKend on how the results   of this year`s election could impact the next two years of politics in America, (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) EVA MCKEND, CNN NATIONAL POLITICS REPORTER:  President Joe Biden needs Democrats to win in the 2022 midterms, if he wants to move his policy   agenda forward. Yet the president`s party almost always loses seats in midterm elections. The party in the White House has lost seats in Congress   in every midterm except for four in the last 150 years.  And poll suggests that voters are disappointed in what President Biden and the Democratic majority have accomplished so far, which doesn`t bode well   for their 2022 chances. SEN. MITCH MCCONELL (R-KY):  And it`s my hope that the `22 election will be a referendum on the performance of the current administration.  MCKEND:  So what would Republican power in Congress mean? First, Biden`s political agenda will be fully halted. He`s already had a hard time getting   much of his policy priorities passed. Democrats have a narrow majority in both the Senate and House if they lose even a few seats in 2022,   Republicans will take back power and stop Biden in his tracks. Of course, Republicans would then find it difficult to get anything passed and signed by President Biden. This all leads to gridlock on Capitol Hill. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which of these social media sites has the lowest character limit per post? Instagram, Twitter, Facebook or TikTok? The current limit for a tweet is 280 characters, far lower than the others. But changes may soon be coming for the Twitterverse. (END VIDEO CLIP) (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DONIE O`SULLIVAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Today is the day many people thought they would never see Elon Musk taking control of Twitter. Of course, the   question now is what is he going to do with the company, with the platform?  He`s expressed his frustration with how many fake accounts and bots are on the platform, so we could see him doing something with that. But he`s also   expressed discomfort about permanently banning people from the platform, knows most notably of course that former U.S. President Donald Trump who   was kicked off at the platform for good we thought after the January attack on the Capitol.  Musk saying though that he will not be making these decisions anytime soon. He is going to set up a council he says of experts who are going to advise   on these types of decisions around speech, around what they should do about banning people or bringing them back.  Within the company itself, speaking to people who work there today, a lot of worry, a lot of concern about what is going to happen with the company,   but also what is going to happen with their jobs and their livelihoods. Donie O`Sullivan, CNN, Dallas. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Up next, we`re headed to outer space. NASA`s InSight lander, a robotic spacecraft designed to land on the surface of Mars, has completed   its mission to map the planet and its interior. The latest mission found information that changes how experts view the formation of planets and   their relationship to Earth. CNN space and defense correspondent Kristin Fisher is on the story. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANNOUNCER:  Touchdown confirmed! (CHEERS) KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Three years after NASA`s InSight lander touched down on Mars, it has delivered   the information that it was sent to collect from millions of miles away.  BRUCE BANERDT, PRINCIPAL INVESTIGATOR, MARS INSIGHT:  This is definitely a data that we`ve been waiting decades for. FISHER:  For the first time, scientists have mapped the interior of another rocky planet. They discovered a thinner than expected crust. And the   biggest surprise a larger lighter and more liquid core than earlier estimates.  For comparison, Earth`s core is much more dense. Meaning the Martian core is at least partially made of different elements. Why is this important? Why should Earthlings care about the composition of Mars? BANERDT:  It allows us to take our theories of the formation of rocky planets in general and the Earth in particular and understand how our   planet formed out of the initial solar nebula, how it changed from just kind of a ball of kind of gray, indistinguishable meteoritic material to   the diverse planet we have today with oceans and continents. FISHER:  On Earth, there are earthquakes. But on Mars, they are called Mars-quakes. The InSight lander is cutting edge seismometer spent two years   measuring them and tracking those seismic waves as they rippled through the Red Planet, while NASA`s other active robot is focused on the surface. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Halloween is upon us, and according to the National Retail Federation, Americans are ghouling all out, spending a record amount of   mummy on Halloween this year -- whether it`s buying candy, costumes, decorations or pumpkins to carve.  Let`s break down the economics of this year`s Halloween. Spending is projected to hit a record $10.6 billion in 2022, and participation in Halloween related activities will resume to pre-pandemic   levels, with nearly 70 percent of consumers planning to celebrate. That`s up from 65 percent last year and even, the 68 percent who celebrated pre-  pandemic in 2019. But no matter how you spend your Halloween, one thing we can all agree upon is that not all Halloween candy is created equal,   according to Candy Commerce. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I can`t process that this is even candy. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I`ve never seen these before either. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  You also might heave. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  That`s actually disgusting. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  That is not great.  CARLY SCHILDHAUS, SPOKESPERSON, NATIONAL CONFECTIONERS ASSOCIATION:  What you may love might not be somebody else`s favorite. But there`s something   for everybody to enjoy.  SUBTITLE:  According a National Retail Fed. Survey, Halloween participation is expected to be back to pre-pandemic levels.  SCHILDHAUS:  Each year, we do over four billion dollars in sales and this year, we are projecting about a five percent increase in chocolate and   candy sales. For Halloween this year, the top three treats are chocolate, candy corn, which I know is controversial, and gummy candy. SUBTITLE:  Not all candies are loved equally.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I don`t know why people hate on me so much. They`re really not that bad.  SCHILDHAUS:  Whether you love it or you, let`s say, don`t love it, candy corn is an iconic part of the Halloween season. MARCIA MOGELONSKY, DIRECTOR OF INSIGHT, FOOD & DRINK, MINTEL:  It is a direct link to the past because it is a nostalgia, reminder of, you know,   everybody always got candy corn and we always hated it but we always ate it. Everybody can talk about candy corn. It doesn`t matter where you are,   you can start a conversation. Candy corn has become one of those commonalities. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It might just be a good memory and not a good reality. SCHILDHAUS:  And people feel that really strong nostalgic tie to different treats. So there are plenty of treats out there that again are really   innovative and exciting, but people also have that strong emotional connection to maybe something they enjoyed as a child, or at a -- at a   particularly exciting or challenging time in their life. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Circus peanuts seemed like a mistake. I`m surprised they`re still around. MOGELONSKY:  You give what you remember from the past. You give what you can afford. To buy whatever looks familiar to them. Oh, yeah, I remember   those Smarties, I`ll take those. There are people who cannot afford to give out Haribo and full-sized Hershey bars to their community. It just doesn`t   work that way, but they want to have something to give and this is what they can afford. We`ll always have candy. There is something about candy and Americans that is just inseparable. You just have to have our security blanket of sweets. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10. An Iowa dad going all out to freak out unsuspecting trick-or-treaters. Greg Dietzenbach created the   Monstdoor. The seemingly normal door with a wreath comes to life with digitized eyes and furry arms claws and gnarly teeth. The fuzzy purple   people eater was created by using a high def TV for the eyes, cutting out door panels and using broomsticks for the arms, and a foam wreath with   puppet-like strings for the mouth and teeth.  And the result, a perfect 10 out of 10 on the frickle-meter (ph). All right. My sweet like candy, voodoo-ful people, I`m witching you a fantastic Halloween.  Big shout out now to Rapid City, South Dakota South Middle School, rise up. Thanks to everyone for subscribing and commenting on our YouTube channel   for your shout-outs. Be safe lovely people. Take care of yourself and each other tonight.  Enjoy your day and your can-day. I`m Coy and this is CNN 10.   END     

Date: 2022-11-01
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, sunshine. Can you believe it`s already November 1st? It feels like just yesterday, it was October. I hope you had a fantastic Halloween. I posted our family fun on Instagram, Snapchat and TikTok. I`m @CoyWire. And this is CNN 10. We`ve got a lot to get to but not a lot of time to do it, so let`s get to it. Considering race in college admissions, that`s our first subject today. The U.S. Supreme Court met on Monday to consider whether colleges and   universities can continue to take race into consideration in their admissions process. In the past, the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that race   can be considered during the college admissions process as part of affirmative action, an active effort to improve educational or employment   opportunities for members of minority groups and for women. A group called Students for Fair Admissions which opposes affirmative action is suing Harvard University and the University of North Carolina. It   says the university`s discriminate against Asian-American applicants and unfairly favor African Americans and Hispanic Americans. Effectively, they   argue that highly qualified students are being denied admission in favor of students of different ethnicities, even though those students` grades and   resumes aren`t as outstanding. These universities say that that`s not the case and that they consider race only to help certain applicants not to count against any others, and they   say they need to do this in order to reach its educational goals which include having diverse campuses. The case is significant because it could influence how schools recruit and admit students in the future. More now from CNN`s Jessica Schneider as we look at the different perspectives involved in this case. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CALVIN YANG, STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS:  Diversity as important as it cannot come at expense of Asian-Americans. JESSICA SCHNEIDER, CNN JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  These Asian- American students are leading a fight against affirmative action. They`re at the center of a lawsuit against Harvard, accusing the Ivy League school   of discriminating against Asian-Americans to make more room for Hispanics and Blacks. Calvin Yang who`s now a sophomore at UC Berkeley claims he was denied admission to Harvard because of his race. YANG:  It goes to show that there is a trend here, a trend where Asian- Americans are systematically getting discriminated because of who we are. SCHNEIDER:  Now, the case against Harvard and a separate but related suit against UNC Chapel Hill is coming before the Supreme Court. EDWARD BLUM, CONSERVATIVE ACTIVIST:  The current law --   SCHNEIDER:  Conservative activist Edward Blum has been leading the crusade to end affirmative action for nearly a decade. BLUM:  Classifying students by race and ethnicity. treating them differently because of their race and ethnicity is -- it`s unfair. SCHNEIDER:  Blum started the group Students for Fair Admissions and initiated cases against Harvard and UNC Chapel Hill years ago. Harvard is accused of holding Asian-Americans to a higher standard and capping their numbers, but the school says it sets no limits. At UNC Chapel Hill, some students say there`s too much weight on race and admissions resulting in discrimination against whites and Asian Americans.   The school though contends it takes a holistic approach to admissions decisions. Multiple federal judges have ruled neither school has violated the Constitution by considering race in the admissions process. But now, Blum   and his supporters are banking on the Supreme Court reversing its own precedent and banning the use of affirmative action. BLUM:  I think that is something that has been polarizing. It has been problematic, and I think the nation is ready for this. SCHNEIDER:  Julia Clark leads the group Black Student Movement at UNC, and she says race is an essential element for universities to consider. JULIA CLARK, PRESIDENT OF BLACK STUDENT MOVEMENT:  We cannot have holistic admissions without race because race is embedded into every single facet of   everyday life for people that come from diverse backgrounds. SCHNEIDER:  Already, nine states ban the use of affirmative action in admissions decisions at public universities. But leaders at the University   of California and the University of Michigan say their race-neutral admissions policies have not worked, telling the Supreme Court and filings   they haven`t been able to significantly increase enrollment of underrepresented minorities sends affirmative action bans in their states   took effect. MARILYNN SCHUYLER, AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR ACCESS:  I know that certainly in California, there have been definite attempts to try and even the   playing field in other ways and they`ve had a limited impact. There`s a chilling effect when students don`t feel welcome either by legislation or   otherwise, they`re not going to want to come to a university that has banned affirmative action that doesn`t value that diversity. SCHNEIDER:  Now, it`s up to the Supreme Court to set the final word of whether affirmative action can continue. YANG:  I want to see affirmative action being repealed and become illegal in college admission system across this country. CLARK:  I think I speak for myself and other Black students that we really are scared at the end of the day. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: The Sun Doong cave, considered to be the world`s largest, is located in what country? Vietnam, Slovenia, China, or Mexico? The Sun Doong cave is located in Central Vietnam and is considered the largest cave in the world based on volume. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Caves, they are dark, they`re potentially dangerous, but for one veteran explorer, caves are full of precious geological secrets that hold   clues about the Earth`s past. Today, as part of our "Call to Earth" coverage this week, Rolex Awards laureate Gina Moseley takes us underground to explore how million-year-old   mineral deposits can provide insight into the future. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) GINA MOSELEY, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF PALEOCLIMATOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF INNSBRUCK:  Caves are really unique places that are very well-connected to   the surface but also well-protected from the surface. So, this means they can store records of how the climate has changed in the past over, over   millions of years. I think for me, the best part of being in a cave is getting to see this unique world that most people don`t get to see. I`m Gina Moseley and I`m a professor of paleoclimatology at the University of Innsbruck. I first started caving when I was about 12 years old. I just thought this was such a cool sport, and then we went underground into this cave. I was   just absolutely hooked from that first moment, the adventure of like crawling through a little tight passage and finding out what`s around the   next corner. But also, as time went by, I learned that you could do science in caves. I learned that you could be the first person to see a part of this planet   that nobody has ever seen. Paleoclimatology is the study of climate change in the past. I`m looking for samples of calcite in the cave. So, this is a mineral deposit that   forms from water that enters the cave and this brings with a chemical signature of what the climate and the environment are doing on the surface. And this water deposits layer by layer these layers of calcite and a thin sheet of water like this will lead to a formation that we find in a cave   called flowstone and this is a very nice example of a flowstone here on the floor. And then I take a sample of that to find out when in the past the   climate has been warmer and wetter there, and that can inform us about what we could expect to happen in the future. I`ve led three expeditions to Greenland so far. We go in the summer, so that means there`s 24-hour daylight. The conditions are fairly rudimentary.   It`s like being on Mars in some ways because this is a polar desert. Each expedition takes several years to prepare for. The next expedition to Greenland is in 2023. I`m taking a team to the very north of Greenland, but we don`t know what we`ll find which makes it kind   of high risk, but high gain, also makes that exciting. I collected a whole bunch of flowstones from northeast Greenland, and these all formed at times in the past when it was warmer and wetter than today.   I`ve got some dates that are like one and a half million years old on some samples, and I can analyze the chemistry in each layer. It`s a bit like   looking at tree rings, each layer tells a different a story and a different history about what the climate and the environment was doing at the time. So climate modelers might take our results from Greenland and implement that into a part of their climate model so we can start to build up a   picture of what we could expect to happen in the future. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 in my book, a robotic falcon and not because I played for the Atlanta Falcons currently leading their   division, it`s because these falcons are keeping the friendly skies safe for highflyers. Since 1903, birds and airplanes have been sharing the sky, and collisions known as bird strikes have resulted in aircraft damage, delays,   cancellations and harm to the birds of course. But this robotic peregrine falcon developed in the Netherlands could be the solution. There`s a camera   on its head allowing for a first-person view for the pilot on the ground who chases the real birds away to safety. Who else wants that job? All right, lovely people. Favorite part of the day, shout out to Central High School in Chattanooga, Tennessee. We hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one. Go out and do little things that make this world a bit of a better place. I`m Coy, and this is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-11-02
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Welcome to CNN 10. I`m Coy. Happy to be right here with you on this wonderful Wednesday. We`re halfway   through the week, so let`s lock in and keep aiming to be a little better today than we were yesterday. Now, in previous episodes, we`ve discussed the ongoing war that started when Russia invaded Ukraine in February of this year. This week, Russia   launched a new round of missiles against Ukraine. The more than 50 missiles largely targeted critical facilities in Kyiv, the capital city in Ukraine.   This is part of Russia`s increasing attacks against critical infrastructure across the country.  This week, 80 percent of residents in Kyiv were left without water and as of Monday, many homes and businesses were without electricity as well. One   of the missile strikes hit an energy facility that powered 350 apartments in the capital, impacting many people who lost power. The Ukrainian   government urged residents to stock up on water from shops and pumping stations after the attack. Following the attacks, emergency services in Ukraine were attempting to restore power and stabilize the situation as soon as possible, especially   before the start of winter. Leaders in Kyiv were also calling on assistance from the European Union and NATO as well as several governments. By   yesterday, Ukraine had already made agreements with 12 countries to obtain nearly 1,000 units of power equipment, including generators. And this isn`t the first time Ukrainian citizens haven`t had access to water. Survivors of the siege in the city of Mariupol at the start of the   war had to collect rain water and melted snow for drinking Russian. Russian President Vladimir Putin said that the recent onslaught of missiles are a   response to an attack on Russia`s fleet in Crimea on Saturday, which he blamed on Ukraine. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice-over):  Life just got harder in Kyiv. Monday morning, 80 percent of the capital`s water off   following a new barrage of Russian airstrikes, spigots not use since the war began a lifeline again, but not unexpected.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Everyone in Kyiv right now and they choose to stay here. They are like ready for this.  ROBERTSON:  Will it make you leave the city?  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  No, I will stay here. I didn`t leave it since the war begins. So, why have to do it now?  ROBERTSON:  Despite the long lines in some parts of the city, patience aplenty.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I`m standing with my friends in one hour, maybe two- hour, maybe three, maybe no water after 20 minutes. But I`ll go back.  ROBERTSON:  Scenes like this are becoming increasingly normal across Ukraine. Government officials say that there were ten different regions   targeted Monday, 18 different sites.  Among them, a hydroelectric power plant, Ukraine`s biggest in Zaporizhzhia. Another power gen site in central Ukraine. Kharkiv subway in the east still   by strikes on vital infrastructure there.  And despite intercepts, 44 across the country, according to the government, groups of missiles getting through, at least three according to this   witness near Kyiv`s hydroelectric power plant.  A missile flew over our house and went to the balcony, and saw the second missile and a drone, she says, both were flying in the direction of the   power plant. It`s so scary when you see it.  Three weeks of targeting Ukraine`s electricity network is pushing the power grid towards a tipping point, no doubt more of this to come.  Nic Robertson, Kyiv, Ukraine. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: What is considered the most expensive object ever built? The Burj Khalifa, the Oakland Bay Bridge, the International Space Station, or the London Crossrail? With estimates over $100 billion, the football field size International Space Station is by far the most expensive project ever constructed. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  French astronaut Thomas Pesquet spent six months aboard the International Space Station last year. He says that experience made him   realize we live in an oasis in the cosmos that we need to protect. He also says they`ve discovered technology that could lead to us eating the   packaging that our food comes in. For today`s "Call to Earth" segment, we`re heading 248 miles high to get a view of the earth very few people get to see. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) THOMAS PESQUET, ASTRONAUT AND FAO GOODWILL AMBASSADOR:  When you look at the Earth from the space station, it`s absolutely magical. It glows in   blue, and it`s the most beautiful scenery you could possibly imagine.  When you take a step back and you see the arsenic`s entirety, you understand it it`s just an oasis in the cosmos. All around, there`s   nothing. No life. It`s blackness emptiness and there`s this blue bowl with everything we need to sustain human life and life in general which is   absolutely fragile. It makes you want to cherish the Earth. I`m Thomas Pesquet, an astronaut for the European Space Agency. I`m coming back from my second mission to space, all onboard the International Space   Station, so permanent laboratory that orbits the Earth.  Just like us on board of space station, the Earth is a spaceship and we are its crew. It flies around the sun. It has limited resources. It has some   protection means but they can be overcome. You don`t control the amount of resources that you have on board but you have to manage them. And what you can control, the way you care about the spaceship, the way you maintain it because you want the flight to be as long and peaceful as   possible.  You can see a lot of the consequences of human activities from space. Some of them climate change, some of them are just plain old pollution.  My first mission was in 2016 launch, 2017 landing. My second mission was five years later, 2021, and I could see a difference. The most visible   effect is glaciers retreating, year after year mission after mission. You know, the ice caps melting in the poles. I`m an ambassador for the food and agricultural organization of the United Nations. But during my mission on the space station, we had a lot of   research done on plants because space is a harsh environment for plants. By studying plants in the environment of space, then we can study how they can   resist to a drought or water scarcity, and then we can feed all those results to research being made on Earth and to create some more resistant   crops, the crops that will resist to climate change.  We`ve also worked a lot on all our packaging just like on Earth, we`re trying to limit the production the use of plastic the production of waste   and so we came up with edible packaging, which is just a such a fantastic and simple concept. We need foam to protect everything from shocks during   launch into space, so what we did is we turned that foam into food it`s like gingerbread. Now, our packaging is at the same time our source of food. It reduces the need to send cargo up. It reduces the production of trash. It`s brilliant.   So, hopefully, that technology can also transfer to packaging on the ground and then we can reduce our environmental footprint every time we go buy   something in the supermarket.  If we set ourselves on the right path, there`s nothing we cannot do. We built that unbelievable facility in space. We`re using it every day,   peaceful cooperation between countries that we`re not always friends. So if we can transfer that model to the way we deal with the environment I think   we`ll get there. I`m optimistic for the future. If we can make a space station fly, then we can save the planet. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s 10 out of 10, we have a story creating a big buzz. It turns out bumblebees may be more complex than we thought. U.K. scientists   designed an experiment that gave 45 bumblebees the choice between a clear path to food or a player filled with wooden balls.  Well, honey, the result was something to beehold. The bees repeatedly chose to roll the balls around, sometimes over 100 times. Researchers believe   that this show`s bees found playtime rewarding. Now, that`s intere-sting. Shout out time now. Hive-five to Greeley, Nebraska, Central Valley Public Schools, rise up.  And I`ll leave you with this today: if there`s something you want out there, think about the goal, speak about the goal, believe you`ll reach it   and you just might achieve it.  We`ll see you tomorrow. I`m Coy and this is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-11-03
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, everyone. It`s your boy Coy, and it`s Thursday. So, happy Friday eve to you. This is CNN 10. We have an awesome show for you today, so without further ado, let`s do what we do. We start today with the latest news out of China. Foxconn, one of Apple`s largest suppliers, is racing to control a COVID-19 outbreak at its campus   in the central Chinese city of Zhengzhou. Trending social media videos show anxious workers reportedly fleeing the lockdown facility earlier this week after experiencing food shortages and   difficult living conditions, including mandatory isolation. The city, which has a population of more than 12 million people, identified dozens of   COVID-19 cases last month and the Chinese government shows few signs of easing its COVID policies. These events highlight how China`s strict zero COVID policy is hurting international business. We`ll hear now from my colleague Selina Wang, the CNN international correspondent, reporting on the chaotic conditions at the Foxconn factory. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SELINA WANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Chaos at Foxconn, one of Apple`s largest suppliers. It`s Zhengzhou factory, which is its largest iPhone assembly   factory in central China, is trying to contain a COVID flare-up but workers are fleeing the COVID restrictions. Viral videos on social media show   masses of workers carrying their luggage trekking long distances across highways. Workers in recent days have been flooding social media with   complaints about subpar living conditions, the poor quality of food and the difficulty and getting enough food amid the intense COVID restrictions. The exodus is putting major strain on Foxconn at a critical period just before the holiday season. It`s another reminder of how China`s zero COVID   policy is hurting international businesses. According to analyst estimates, the Zhengzhou factory accounts for as much as 85 percent of Apple`s iPhone assembly capacity. According to   Counterpoint Research, they estimate that this could jeopardize 10 to 30 percent of the iPhone-14 production if this situation doesn`t stabilize in   the near term. Now, according to state media, Foxconn is trying to boost capacity production at other sites. The company says it is actually quadrupling   bonuses for workers at the Zhengzhou plant in order to incentivize workers to stay. But zero COVID is clearly still having a massive impact on   businesses, on people`s daily lives, the entire city of Zhengzhou, which is home to more than 12 million people, it`s been under lockdown since late   October. These constant lockdowns in China are causing global businesses to re- evaluate the reliability of China as a production base. In fact, Apple has been increasing production in places like India in order to reduce its   dependency on China. Selina Wang, CNN, Beijing. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: In Spanish, the word "manta" means what? Blanket, bread, balloon or basket. Manta refers to a type of cloak or blanket which is why manta rays share the name describing the look of the animal`s large flat diamond-shaped   bodies. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Today is CNN`s Call to Earth Day, which aims to highlight the conservation work of organizations and individuals around the world and in   connection with that. We have a special feature with marine scientists and Rolex Awards laureate Kerstin Forsberg who`s working to protect manta rays   in her home country of Peru. I recently had a chance to talk with her about her experience beneath the waves. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KERSTIN FORSBERG, MARINE BIOLOGIST AND CONSERVATIONIST:  The ocean is our source of life. The ocean touches us in every single second. It`s, you   know, connected with our atmosphere. The ocean provides resources. The ocean provides oxygen in our planet. The ocean provides so many different things to inspire us even on a cultural or   emotional level. WIRE:  What made you fall in love with the ocean? Why did you choose this path? FORSBERG:  I was passionate about nature and environment and animals ever since I was a kid. I was always reading about animals, reading about   nature. And then I think as I grew up and I decided to start a career in biology, it became really clear to me that the ocean was in real trouble, and that a   lot of people needed to really start to think about the importance that the ocean has on our everyday lives. WIRE:  You have designed and developed dozens of environmental initiatives. What are some of the biggest challenges facing our oceans and ocean life   right now? FORSBERG:  We`re taking all the resources out of it. We`re polluting the ocean. We`re putting all our waste and dumping all their waste into it. So   it`s really about thinking of us as our everyday and how we connect to the ocean, and how we can depend on the ocean, but we can also shape the ocean. So, through sustainable seafood consumption, through making sure that we are utilizing our waste properly, and that`s how we`re going to ultimately   stop those challenges which at the end are all about over-exposition, pollution and also climate change and habitat destruction. We started building a network of schools. It`s called the Marine Educators Network of Northern Peru. And this network of schools started to grow, in   over local schools in northern Peru, connecting between each other with teachers starting to incorporate ocean literacy within classrooms, but then   building on that having youth start developing their own environmental projects that benefited their communities. First of all, we work with schools. We partner together with schools and with teachers and we develop an ocean literacy training program in which   kids learn about the ocean, learn about how we`re connected to the ocean. But even beyond that, they learn about environmental leadership and how to   develop their own project. So we`re giving them the tools on how to develop a project how to set out goals how to develop your own budget, how to track your progress and in   doing that connect kids so we`ve developing feedback between each other and really developing this sense of global citizenship at the end, right? We   all need to start connecting between our ourselves as global citizens in order to move forward and address sustainability challenges. WIRE:  Well, we have a special day, Call to Earth Day. I`m sure you have something up your sleeve or two. FORSBERG:  For Call to Earth Day, we will be hosting an activity in northern Peru, with over 40 different youth. These are local university   students and we`re partnering with a series of local organizations, including from the regional government and civil society and conservation   areas. So, it`s really about having everybody together. It`s going to be a huge celebration, where different organizations come together, with different   youth come together, and again, we`re different disciplines, right? Come together, and ultimately, land and sea come together   So, that`s what it`s all about for us, Call to Earth. It`s a celebration of our planet that connects us all. WIRE:  Kerstin Forsberg, your -- your smile, your passion are contagious. You inspire us as we aspire to make this world a bit of a better place.   Thank you so much for joining us. FORSBREG:  Thank you so much for the invitation. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s 10 out of 10, we may have bitten off more than we can choo choo. The world`s longest ever passenger train took a trip through the   Swiss Alps. What ingenuity, this train is 1.2 miles long, made up of a hundred cars, it had to be a slowcomotive, taking about an hour to complete   a 15-mile trip, through 22 tunnels, over 48 bridges. The record-breaking event took place on October 29th, the 175th anniversary of Switzerland`s   first railway. For your news, for some fun, we`re here for you train or shine. And so is shout-out time. Mrs. Bush`s class at Bosqueville Middle School in Waco,   Texas. Think it, speak it, believe it. Did you know that today, November 3rd is National Stress Awareness Day. So, like my four-year-old daughter tells me, smell the flowers, cool the soup.   Whenever you feel overwhelmed, don`t fret about the future. Don`t worry about the past. Just take a deep breath and embrace the power of now. I`m Coy and this is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-11-04
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey you. You made it to Friday, and you already know Friday`s rock. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. And we`ve got an awesome show for you today. Let`s finish this week strong. I have some good news to start your weekend. Many of you get an extra hour of sleep on Sunday, Daylight Saving Time. But could this be the last year   of it? Every year on the first Sunday of November at 2:00 a.m., many of us turn our clocks back an hour. On the second Sunday in March, they spring   back forward an hour. But where did this idea of shifting time come from and why is it so polarizing? Let`s take 10 to break it all down. While Benjamin Franklin gets credit for the first mention of the idea, Daylight Saving Time was first implemented in the U.S. with the Standard   Time Act of 1918. A wartime measure with the purpose of adding more daylight hours to conserve energy resources Currently, not all states participate in daylight saving, including most of Arizona and Hawaii. Over 70 countries around the world use daylight saving   time with notable exceptions of China and Japan. But earlier this year, the U.S. Senate passed a bill called the Sunshine Protection Act which would make Daylight Saving Time permanent year round,   beginning in the fall of 2023. That bill is currently sitting in the House of Representatives. If passed there and then signed by the president, it   would mean no more changing clocks in the U.S. There are, of course, arguments for and against the practice. We`ll travel to the United Kingdom now to meet a small group of clockmakers who have a   big job of making sure everything is working on time, especially when it comes to the time change. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ALEX JEFFREY, CLOCKMAKER, PALACE OF WESTMINSTER:  I love talking about clocks. I could talk about clocks all day. Not everyone wants to hear about   them, but everyone wants to hear about the clocks at the Palace of Westminster. Whether it`s Big Ben, whether it`s just being interested in   such a busy building, working on clocks, doing the time change, maintaining, it`s something I take a lot of pride in. REPORTER:  Ian Westworth and Alex Jeffrey are part of a small team of clockmakers at the Palace of Westminster in London. Twice a year, when the   clocks spring forward or fall back across the United Kingdom, they have the responsibility of adjusting 2,000 timepieces before lawmakers return to   work. JEFFREY:  There`s two thousand clocks on the parliamentary estate. There`s 500 heritage clocks, there`s two days and it`s our task to perform the GMT   time change. IAN WESTWORTH, CLOCMAKER, PALACE OF WESTMINISTER:  And overnight, we changed Big Ben. The great clock of Westminster and we put that back an   hour just to make sure everybody who can now see the dials can actually tell at the right time when they wake up on Sunday morning. JEFFREY:  So, this is one of our heritage clocks. There`s around four or five hundred of them, and they`re just going to bring the minute hand back   to do the time change being careful not to graze the dial, and it`s -- in one of the committee rooms along committee corridor where a lot of   important meetings happen. WESTWORTH:  We have clocks here that pre-date this palace and some that were designed specifically for this palace. We do actually come across clocks that we`ve never found before. It only happened the other week. An MP contacted us saying, I`ve got a clock in my   office, it hasn`t run for some time. And I`m thinking, I`ve been here 18 years and I`ve never been into your office. He said that`s probably why it   hasn`t worked. JEFFREY:  The time changes were put in initially as a mechanism, a practical mechanism to take advantage of daylight hours in the summer. So,   it`s important I think to keep that tradition. REPORTER:  In the United Kingdom, Winston Churchill championed the concept of daylight saving during the First World War before he became prime   minister, believing that the country could save energy by stretching the hours of evening sunlight. The practice has spread across the world. In the U.S. most states observe daylight saving moving clocks forward in the spring. Only Hawaii and most of Arizona don`t. In 2022, the Senate   passed the Sunshine Protection Act, a law which would make Daylight Saving Time permanent across the United States from November 5th, 2023. If passed   by the House, the clocks would not fall back again. In the U.K., a 2019 poll showed that a small majority of Britons want to keep changing the clocks. At the Palace of Westminster, its resident   clockmakers are responsible for maintaining this tradition. WESTWORTH:  Even with this digital world, you know, everybody`s got a computer with a clock at the bottom or they`ve got a digital watch on. But   the MPS and the lords or the staff, who`ve actually got a ticking clock in their office. One of the first things they look at is the ticking clock and   not the one on the wrist. Our job is to make sure that every day, these clocks are working for them. The last clock of the day before doing great   clock tonight. JEFFREY:  You know, there`s a lot of ground to cover. I left my step count on last year and it was 55,000 steps. It`s very time consuming but it`s   very rewarding. You know, we can say to each other, well done, guys. It`s a job well done and when people turn up for work on Monday, they`re right on   time. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And now it`s time for some hero talk. We`ve been introducing you to CNN Heroes since the start of the school year. Together, we met a woman   upcycling old computers to open new worlds for young people in our home country of Kenya. We met a teacher in New Jersey on a mission to hand out   free books by the thousands. This week, CNN announced the top heroes of the year. Let`s meet them and hear how they are making this world a better   place. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANDERSON COOPER, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  From California when elderly dog owners can no longer care for their pets, Carie Broecker helps them stay   together or finds these beloved family members new forever homes. From Nashville, Richard Casper uses art to heal the wounds of war. He`s helping fellow veterans share their stories visually and vocally. Nelly Cheboi is bringing technology to young people in her native Kenya, recycling old computers, she provides the tools and education for brighter   futures. North Carolina innovator Nora El-Khouri Spencer is training women for well- paying careers in construction while also helping seniors age safely at home. From south Philadelphia after spending five years in prison on drug charges, Tyrique Glasgow is now providing his neighborhood long challenged   by poverty and gun violence with safety and opportunity. Alaskan nurse Teresa Gray leads volunteer medics into global hot spots, delivering vital care and support to those in need. Meymuna Hussein-Cattan is helping refugees and immigrants transition to lives in the U.S. with critical resources and support while also sharing   their culture with the L.A. community. Aidan Reilly brought together a nationwide network of young volunteers tackle food waste and insecurity they`re rescuing tons of excess produce   from farms to feed the hungry. From Chicago, Deborah Vines struggled to find support and resources when her son Jason was diagnosed with autism. Now, she`s providing services and   education to African American families and first responders. And Atlanta`s Bobby Wilson is feeding and healing his urban community by teaching thousands of people how to plant grow and prepare their own   healthy food. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: American, Bridal Veil, and Horseshoe are features that combine to make what natural wonder? Great Barrier Reef, Niagara Falls, Grand Canyon, or Galapagos Islands. Located on the U.S. Canadian border, these are the names of the three waterfalls that together make Niagara Falls. (END VIDEO CLIP) WEIR:  We`re giving this next story an A-plus, a gold star, and a 10 out of 10. Niagara Falls, one of the natural wonders of the world, on the New York and Canadian border, draws visitors from every corner of the planet who come to   see its majestic cascading water. Well, there`s a tunnel buried deep beneath the falls. It`s been off limits until now. It`s about seven   football fields long it was built more than a century ago on the Canadian side as part of the former Niagara Parks Power Station. And visitors can   now venture through the plant down the corridor and onto a waterside platform for some of the most breathtaking views in the world. This has been an awesome week. Happy Friday, everyone. Keep in touch over the weekend. I`m @CoyWire on Insta, Snapchat and TikTok. We`re CNN 10 on   YouTube. We want to give a special shout out now to Vista Middle School in Ferndale, Washington. Remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy. This is   CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2022-11-07
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  It is Monday and it`s going to be the best day because it`s the next day. I`m Coy, here with your news, some inspiration   and a little bit of fun. Thanks for choosing us to help you start your week strong. We begin today with news on the Mississippi River. This video shows the river at historically low levels from Illinois to Louisiana. Experts say   the record low water levels are due to the worst drought in the central part of the United States in at least a decade and that we can expect to   see continued decreasing levels in the months to come. Lack of rain or snow over a period of time and atmospheric conditions such as temperature change and changes in the jet stream are all factors that   can contribute to drought and low water levels. According to the U.S. drought monitor, half of the United States is covered by moderate drought   conditions or worse, with more than 134 million people affected. That`s the highest part of the population since 2016. And the Midwest has seen the worst of it. Several inches of rain are possible over the next week near the Mississippi River which could provide   some relief but the drought is forecast to continue through January and low water levels have some serious consequences. They could impact crops at a   crucial time for harvest and allow for salt water from the Gulf of Mexico to travel up the Mississippi River which could potentially spoil Louisiana   drinking water with salt.  And while the Army Corps of Engineers has been dredging or excavating portions of the river`s basin to make a path for boat traffic to keep   flowing. It`s at such a slow pace, hundreds of barges and vessels carrying goods are waiting for the all-clear to be able to pass through the shallow   river. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  To navigate this river in the old South, a man would stand on the prowess steam ship and   bounce a lead weight on a knotted string off the bottom. If it was a safe 12 feet deep, he`d shout "Mark Twain". Samuel Clemens made that his pen   name, of course.  But if he wrote about this river today, Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn would spend a lot of time walking on the beach because in too many places, the   not so mighty Mississippi is a fraction of a Twain. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We`re going to look at a few old steamboats, steamboat racks. WEIR:  Mark Twain era steamboats? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yeah. WEIR:  And the relentless drought across the heartland is exposing all kinds of memories. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It may have caught on fire or sank 50 miles upstream and floated here during floods. WEIR:  As far as water levels go, this is as worse if you`ve ever seen? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This is about as low as I`ve seen it. WEIR:  From the Missouri down to New Orleans, accidental archaeologists are finding steamboat graveyards and human remains, Civil War ammo and   forgotten shipwrecks. And one of the more striking yardsticks is here in Baton Rouge. This is the USS Kidd, a World War II destroyer, and on a good year the Mississippi   comes to that first rush strike, about 25 feet above my head right now. And these water levels are so low creating such a catastrophic shipping crisis that this is going to affect your grocery bill, is the price of   moving. A bushel of soybeans went up 300 percent and there are thousands of barges full of food and all they can do is just wait and pray for rain. And if they can`t get rain, they pray for help. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We`ve got a difficult stretch of river. WEIR:  From the Army Corps of Engineers, with billions of dollars on the line, they cut channels as fast as they can with working antiques like the   Dredge Potter. Built in 1932 but still a workhorse and an endless fight with the river in every kind of weather. You`re a professional riverbed redecorator. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Kind of, yeah, yeah.  WEIR:  A little of this over here. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  That`s right. WEIR:  Over there. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  As long as we can keep barges moving and keep commodities prices down, we`re all in good shape. WEIR:  That`s your -- that`s your mission. It`s impressive to see up front. Andy, you know the Ole Miss better than most, huh? You`ve been doing this a while. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Thirty-four years. (LAUGHTER) WEIR:  And how would you characterize what`s going on these days? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It is a concern, a heightened concern. I don`t know that I -- we call it a panic yet, but we are watching the water levels very   closely, on an almost an hourly basis.  WEIR:  Is it the kind of thing where if this goes on you can dredge around the problem? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  To a point. In 1989 and then again in 2012, we got to an area where the chan -- to a level where the channel was almost   unsustainable. So we had numerous dredges working and there was very little commerce going through. And ultimately, what saved the day was rain. WEIR:  And these days, when you wish for rain, you have to specify not all at once. The Midwest is still recovering from summer flash floods. And if   the water cycle whiplashes again, hard rain on parched earth would be another blow to farmers, already struggling to move their harvest.  Fewer and lighter barges on the river means more expensive trains and trucks putting more planet cooking pollution into Earth`s system. And on a   connected planet where one in eight humans eat something that was moved down the Mississippi, those hearty souls on the Dredge Potter are going to   need a lot more help. Bill Weir, CNN, Baton Rouge. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: What`s the name of NASA`s next mission to the moon? Apollo, Artemis, Explorer, or Juno? Artemis I is currently scheduled for an uncrewed test flight on November 14th. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  NASA`s Artemis program hopes to return humans to the moon for the first time in half a century and the Artemis I mission hopes to test, to   see if it`s ready, to take real astronauts to the moon and back. But everything from fuel leaks to hurricanes have already stalled the mission. Liftoff is now scheduled for November 14th and Artemis is back on   the launch pad waiting for its big moment. But if you can`t wait, there may be a way for you to get that moonwalking feeling right here on Earth. A new invention from Shift Robotics aims to make walking faster and more efficient. But will they revolutionize the way we walk? That remains to be   seen. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) XUNJIE ZHANG, CEO, SHIFT ROBOTICS:  Instead of replacing walking, what if we can augmenting or enhancing walking? REPORTER:  These are not roller skates, they are moonwalkers designed by Shift Robotics, a startup out of the robotics lab at Carnegie Mellon   University. ZHANG:  I think the biggest problem is just the walking is too slow, it`s super inefficient to get around by walking. So instead of replacing   walking, what if we can you know augmenting or enhancing walking? REPORTER:  The company says these battery powered shoes can boost walking speeds up to seven miles an hour. Using a machine learning algorithm, Shift   Robotics says the shoes can adapt to a user`s walking pattern in real time. ZHANG:  You know, even though it has some elements of roller skate. You never freeloading, you just go -- they only move when you want to move. REPORTER:  Moonwalkers can fit most shoes with flexible straps that can be easily taken on and off with magnetic buckles. With speed limitation tech   and braking systems the company claims the shoes are safe to use on on sidewalks or in crowded areas. ZHANG:  Outside the personal commuting or running errand scenes we think they`re going to be great on distribution centers supermarket stores like   warehouses for example where it`s not fully automated but that still require lots of people walking around. REPORTER:  Shift Robotics also claims that users can walk over six miles after a single charge of an hour and a half. The company says it will deliver the first batch of shoes to consumers in March 2023 at nearly fourteen hundred dollars.  ZHANG:  I think at one day, you know, once we achieve economy scales, we will be able to drop the price we will be able to develop newer models that   will allow us ultimately to drive the cost down.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is a hoot, a textbook example of parody by a parrot. TV reporter Nicholas Crum was in Chile telling a story about rising crime rates when a parrot pulls off an impeccable heist stealing the headphone   right out of his ear. He gone. Crum, he needs to be more careful. He had someone else chase the thief for him so he could continue his report. Apparently, Crum suspected foul play.   Well, the whole thing was caught on camera and where it is, he did get his headphone back. All right. Without feather ado, my favorite parrot of the day, I want to give a special shout out to West Side Middle School in Charleston, West   Virginia. Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our YouTube channel for a shout out. Let`s aim to be a little better today than we were yesterday. Keep shining, lovely people. I`m Coy and this is CNN 10. We`ll see you tomorrow. END     

Date: 2022-11-08
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, hello. Terrific Tuesday to you. I`m Coy. Grateful to be spending part of my day right here with you on CNN 10. Today is the first Tuesday in November and that means election day across America. Millions of Americans head to the polls to cast their ballots but   they won`t be choosing the next U.S. president. Americans will cast their votes for representatives in Congress and candidates for state and local   offices.  Every two years, all 435 seats in the House of Representatives are up for election while only about a third of the 100-seat Senate are up for grabs.   These are called midterm elections because they happen two years into a U.S. president`s four-year term. The midterms are the first chance for   voters to weigh in on President Biden`s term, policies and vision for America. All eyes are on Arizona, Wisconsin, Georgia and Pennsylvania, four states that President Biden flipped to Democrat in the election but are now   battlegrounds states that Republicans could win back. Issues at the top of mind for voters are, the economy, social issues, immigration, concerns   about violent crime and concerns about election security and the election process itself.  This year, early voting has surged in some key states, including Georgia, which shattered records for early voter turnout but rain forecasted across   the country today could impact voter turnout on election day. We`ll hear more now from CNN`s Karin Caifa about today`s elections and what Americans might expect as results come in. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KARIN CAIFA, CNN REPORTER (voice-over):  President Joe Biden isn`t on the ballot, but for most Americans, it`s their first chance to weigh in on his   party and policies. JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  This election isn`t a referendum, it`s a choice. It`s a choice between two fundamentally   different visions of America. CAIFA:  Among states taking center stage in the battle for the U.S. Senate tight races in four that president Biden flipped in the 2020 presidential   election, Arizona, Wisconsin, Georgia and Pennsylvania were Biden and former President Barack Obama stumped Saturday. BARACK OBAMA, FORMER PRESIDENT:  Democracy itself is on the ballot. The stakes are high.  CAIFA:  And former President Donald Trump also rallied. DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT:  This election is your chance to make your voice heard. CAIFA:  Underscoring how 2022 may foreshadow the 2024 presidential contest. Polls indicate most voters are looking at the economy right now as they cast ballots. Democrats touted Friday`s October jobs report and   unemployment still near a half century low as assigned their economic policies are working, while Republicans point to the highest inflation in   40 years.  SEN. RON JOHNSON (R-WI):  The inflation crushing our pocketbooks, can`t fill up our tank, can`t fill up our grocery cart. CAIFA:  Democrats hope the Supreme Court`s decision to overturn Roe v. Wade in June will motivate voters, especially women, while Republicans have   accused Democrats of being weak on crime especially in major cities.  Both parties eager to drive turnout in their favor. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Name the peninsula in Egypt located between the Mediterranean Sea and Red Sea. Sinai, Iberian, Arabian or Yucatan? Sinai peninsula is the answer here and at the southern tip is where you`ll find the Egyptian city of Sharm El-sheikh. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  This week and next in Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt, tens of thousands of world leaders, representatives, negotiators, businesses and citizens will   gather for the COP27 Conference. Twenty-seven because this is the 27th year that the global climate summit has been held. The focus of these conferences is climate change. The U.N. says this was a fringe issue when the summits began, but it`s now a global priority though   different nations have different levels of commitment to it. Carbon dioxide emissions are front and center here. Most scientists say these emissions   are harming the global environment by causing earth`s average temperatures to rise a smaller group of scientists says that climate change happens   naturally and that the earth can absorb human carbon emissions. But the goal of these U.N. summits is for member countries to lay out new plans to reduce their emissions of carbon dioxide. Let`s take a look now at the history of these COP conferences as nations continue to debate the issues that relate to the health of the planet. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORTER:  COP stands for Conference of the Parties. The gatherings are intense technical negotiations brokered by the U.N. Countries are meant to   work together to coordinate a global effort to reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. But progress at successive COP summits has been limited. RAUL ESTRADA-OYUELA, KYOTO COP3 CHAIRMAN:  This is a very long process. It will take decades. PAULA DOBRIANSKY, HEAD OF U.S. DELEGATION, BALI, COP13:  We will go forward and join consensus in this today. LEONARDO DICAPRIO, UN MESSENGER OF PEACE: Now must be our moment for action. REPORTER:  The first climate COP summit took place in Berlin in 1995, and representatives from more than states or territories attended. Two years   later, progress. The parties at COP3 in Japan agreed to the Kyoto Protocol in which 37 industrialized states or territories were legally bound to   start reducing their emissions.  But the biggest polluter at the time the United States refused to ratify the agreement because it didn`t oblige developing nations like China to cut   emissions. In the following years, climate change slipped on and off the global agenda. After 9/11, the world`s attention shifted to fighting   international terrorism. Climate issues took a back seat. All the while, greenhouse gas emissions continue to soar and without the United States and China on board, the Kyoto protocol began to crumble,   successive climate summits produced few results. COP15 in Copenhagen in 2009 was highly anticipated, but fell short.  BUYELWA SONJICA, SOUTH AFRICAN ENVIRONMENT MINISTER:  It`s not acceptable. It`s definitely not acceptable. It`s disappointing. REPORTER:  Then at COP21 in Paris, there was a breakthrough. In 2015, the Paris agreement was adopted by more than 190 parties, including the U.S. and China, and effectively replaced Kyoto. Its ambition   was to limit global warming to well below two, but preferably 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. But the watchdog Climate Action Tracker shows that all major economies are off track to meeting their obligations to contain temperature rise and as   governments lagged in fulfilling their pledges a new wave of youth-led environmental activism was born. GRETA THUNBERG, CLIMATE ACTIVIST:  All what you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth. How dare you? DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT:  It is time to put Youngstown, Ohio, Detroit, Michigan, and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, before Paris, France. REPORTER:  Then, U.S. President Donald Trump withdrew the United States from the Paris agreement, only for his successor President Biden to bring   the U.S. back into it.  JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT:  This moment demands urgency. Good ideas and good intentions aren`t good enough. REPORTER:  At COP26 in Glasgow, developed countries pledged $100 billion annually to support developing countries in reducing greenhouse gas   emissions and adapting their economies.  But the conference also had its shortcomings. India successfully demanded that the final agreement would commit countries to phase down rather than   phase out coal. JOURNALIST:  It`s according to science, sir. It`s according to science. BHUPENDER YADAV, INDIAN ENVIRONMENT MINISTER:  No, not at all. REPORTER:  Fossil fuels like coal, oil and gas emit heat trapping greenhouse gas emissions. And if we don`t cut those emissions dramatically,   scientists predict global temperatures could warm by three degrees by the end of the century. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Now for today`s 10 out of 10, we`re bringing you a tasty story that`s going to wake you up. People deep-fry chicken, they deep-fry   potatoes. I`ve even heard of deep fried Oreos.  But coffee? How to even do that? James Hoffman, a coffee connoisseur and author, deep fried the coffee beans for 14-1/2 minutes. And he says it   created a soft and buttery cup of Joe rich but not greasy, I guess you could deep fry just about anything. I think my weakness is French fries. I can eat them all day, every day. What`s your weakness? Like if you were a superhero, what would your   kryptonite be? Let me know at Coy Wire on Instagram, Snapchat and TikTok. Shout out time now. Many High School in Many, Louisiana, we wish you and everyone watching around the world many blessings.  My team and I are so grateful to spend part of our day with you. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10.   END     

Date: 2022-11-09
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Wonderful Wednesday to you. I know we`re just halfway through the week, but we`re going to keep on   grinding and shining because that`s just what we do. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10 and we`ve got a rendezvous with the news. Yesterday was election day in America. Millions of adults all across the country went to the polls to cast their votes for representatives in   Congress, senators and state and local officials. The results were still coming in when we produced this show for the latest info check out CNN.com where results are updated in real time. But between early voting which shattered state records in Georgia and absentee ballots and the sheer volume of votes on election day it could be   a while before we know who the winners are all eyes are on the results in Arizona, Wisconsin, Georgia and Pennsylvania, battleground states that   Biden flipped to Democratic states in the 2020 presidential election. But now, Republicans are hoping to gain control there. Experts say the 2022 midterm results could foreshadow the 2024 presidential contest. Polls indicate that most voters rank the economy as the number one   issue on their minds, but women`s rights, guns and public safety as well as immigration and election security are also major issues that are important   to voters in this election. Let`s hear now from chief national correspondent John King in the election center who explains the early signs he`s looking for as election results   come in. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DANA BASH, CNN CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT:  Let`s start in the House. JOHN KING, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Four hundred thirty-five races in all, under new lines because of the census two years ago, the   redistricting process. As you know better than anybody, they`re not all competitive. So, what we`ve done is we`ve identified working with our   partners at inside elections, 82 competitive seats heading into election day. And as you can see, they are coast to coast. Another way to look at it, look at this, just to understand Democrats are on defense. It`s a   Democratic president`s first midterm. It`s a tough climate, just look down here at the key to these seats. BASH:  Yeah. KING:  Fifty-seven of the competitive seats have Democratic incumbents almost three times as many, almost three times as many of Republicans.   There are three new seats here too as you look at the map. So Democrats are on their heels defending much more territory in a tough year. That`s one   way to look at it. Now let`s bring it up, the big question is, who can get to 2018, right? And in our rankings right now, we already have Republicans favored in seats.   Now some of those are just barely favored you see the lighter red on the map. But Republicans have a huge advantage going into election day and if   you look down and, you know, the race is very well. These toss-up races go coast to coast. BASH:  Let`s look at the Senate. Obviously right now, 50-50. KING:  Right. BASH:  It could go so many different ways. KING:  The chess game here, you can game it out. Reasonably, Democrats winning here, Republicans winning there were elections in all. Again, you   work with -- we`ve worked with our partners here to identify the competitive seats. Eight elections of the Senate, we view as competitive. It could be more. Republicans think they could surprise us in some places of these eight. They`re evenly divided now between held by Democrats or   held by Republicans. Best way to look at this is to come into the balance of power as you come into the control right now. Again, Democrats enter the election, 50-50. The vice president United States breaks the ties. So Democrats can`t afford to lose essentially. And   so, you have the states on the map if you come in now to how we rank them, the goal or the toss-up states, one is a Republican held state right now,   no incumbent Pennsylvania, Democratic incumbent in Georgia, the probably the most vulnerable Democratic incumbent you were just out there in Nevada. BASH:  Yeah. KING:  This is where the chess gets fascinating. BASH:  Yeah. And so many -- I mean, you`re saying that these yellow are maybe the tightest, but that might belie what we`re actually seeing on the   ground, which is a wider swath of really, really tight races. KING:  But it is possible, again, we know these races are competitive right. But we still tilt New Hampshire Democratic, Republicans think they   can pick up that seat. We still tilt Arizona Democratic; Republicans think that one is within their reach. They say watch, we still have -- this as   likely Dem up in Washington state, in Colorado, Republicans say keep an eye on everything. So you could -- you conceivably could get Republicans to 52 or 53. You can also get the Democrats to 51 or stay status quo at 50. Again, this race could decide the Senate. In the end, does anybody get above or are we going are we going another month? BASH:  Or are we going to be standing here in December? KING:  On December 6th, but you were just out here. This is what Democrats worry about most. They view Catherine Cortez Masto as the most vulnerable   Democrat and again think about the math, right? We won`t know that one because it`s out west, right? The Democrats would love to pick up Pennsylvania as a safety valve an insurance policy against maybe losing out in Nevada. BASH:  It is going to be a long and very exciting night. KING:  Week. BASH:  Maybe week. John King, thank you. KING:  Thank you. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: In what sport would you find a gully, sweeper and a wicket keeper? Curling, bowling, cricket or lacrosse? The answer here is cricket in which the only field are allowed to wear gloves is called the wicket keeper. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Our next story involves the sport of cricket but it`s about so much more than the intricacies of the game. It showcases a much broader dynamic   of sports and highlights the importance of camaraderie, lifting each other up and setting aside differences to work together towards something greater   than ourselves. Steffan Nero is visually impaired. He struggled to fit in, but his life changed when he found his squad, and he`s gone on to shatter records. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SUBTITLE:  Steffan Nero is not your average athlete. Born with two visual impairments, he struggled at school, failing to find a place where he felt he fitted in. After discovering visually impaired sports, Australian Nero started playing blind cricket and found new horizons. STEFFAN NERO, BLIND CRICKETER:  Sport is for me is such a big part of my life. like I can`t really understate it, to be honest. I never really   connected with other people my age regarding, you know, just obviously other people who didn`t have the same obviously sight condition as me. But   I usually felt quite lonely at high in high school. Sport, I would say, really changed my life and really pushed me to realize that I do have a lot of potential. I`d say I`ve flourished in a way. I   became much more confident in myself. Part of a family, you`re part of a group, you all dealt with the same experiences. You can speak to each other, and that`s something that I   really needed when I was growing up, because I think without it I`ve been a much more -- much different situation without those kinds of experiences. SUBTITLE:  Blind cricket differs from the able-bodied version in a number of ways. Players of varying visual impairments bowl a ball with internal bearings underhanded, allowing it to be heard. Nero etched his name into sporting history when he scored a record-breaking 309 not out innings against New Zealand. NERO:  Once I got the 300-mark, I was just like, okay, this is, you know, I can even make history here. When everyone was clapping as well, it was   amazing feeling to experience and something I could say I`ll never forget for the rest of my life. Obviously, it wasn`t just me, but it was the team and my coaching staff, everyone, my parents, everyone. But still my name was said, Steffan Nero   has made 309. So still a very special moment. SUBTITLE:  Although the response was overwhelmingly positive, there were still some negative comments around the record. NERO:  Majority of people obviously very crisp of saying, oh, wow, didn`t realize this game that I think it can -- it helps to kind of change   people`s minds a bit about what disability means as well. I did hear a few comments saying oh you know it`s just disability cricket. You know that   kind of thing. But like I said a lot of people just making jokes about it as well, which happens, you know, that`s the way it is on social media. After a while, I   stopped looking at the comments and stuff as well and just kind of just ignored it and said, you know what, this is something that I think is   really positive for blind cricket, for people with disabilities in Australia as well. SUBTITLE:  As well as furthering the sport, Nero wants to use his position to inspire the next generation. NERO:  I always say, if you try something, you don`t like it, then that`s fine. Unless you`ve tried it, you know, you`re taking that first step. It   probably will be the hardest thing you ever do, but once it happens and you`re involved in that kind of group and that community, I think things   get much easier and can be quite a really rewarding experience. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s 10 out of 10 story might cause an uproar, and I ain`t even lying. The Oklahoma City zoo needs names for its litter of African lion   cubs, and it`s asking the public to pick `em. Born September 26 at the zoo`s lion overlook habitat, these cute baby lions are the zoo`s first in 15 years. Before the cubs are old enough to be put   in public display though, they need names. But before you toss out names like Santa Claws (ph), Empe-roar (ph), or Kitty Purrie (ph), you have to   cast your vote on a pre-approved name on a list on the zoo`s website. Shout out time now. High five and a high 10 to Maclay Middle School in Tallahassee, Florida. Hope you all have a happy day. And remember, happiness isn`t some idea that we have to chase or find or create. Happiness is right here, right now, whenever we choose to embrace   it. Much love and many blessings. I`m Coy and this is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-11-10
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, everyone. It`s your boy Coy. Today is Thursday. So happy Friday eve. We`re motoring our way to the weekend. This   is CNN 10.   We have an awesome show for you today. So without further ado, let`s do what we do. We start today with the latest news from the midterm elections. Election day is over, but key races remain uncalled. In the Senate, the balance of   power rests in the hands of a few swing states. And one critical Senate race, the one in Georgia, is now projected to go to a runoff. Why? Because neither the incumbent Democratic Senator Raphael   Warnock nor Republican challenger Herschel Walker had the required plus one vote to win the election outright. It`s a super close race that now won`t   be decided until December 6th.   But there are actually three states that will now determine which party wins control of the Senate for the rest of this term: Georgia, Arizona and   Nevada. And in the House of Representative elections, projections show that while Democrats had a stronger than expected showing, they will lose seats   and Republicans remain cautiously optimistic about winning control of the House. Both of these chambers were still up for grabs when we produced this show. Head to CNN.com for the latest election results. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: What`s occurring when the Earth passes directly between the sun and the moon, casting a shadow on the moon? Winter solstice, summer equinox, solar eclipse or lunar eclipse? The answer here is lunar eclipse, but not all eclipses are created equal. (END VIDEO CLIP) (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RACHEL CRANE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  A lunar eclipse is when the moon passes through the earth`s shadow. This only occurs during a full   moon. Two factors decide which of three possible eclipses the moon will experience: the tilt of the moon`s orbit around the earth, and which of the   earth`s two shadows the moon falls behind. The earth`s darker inner shadow is known as the umbra and the lighter outer one is called the penumbra. The penumbral eclipse is when the moon passes through -- you guessed it -- just the penumbra. NASA says this type of eclipse is so subtle that if you   didn`t know it was happening, you might not even notice it. A partial eclipse is when the moon only gets covered by part of the earth`s umbra, so only part of it is shaded in darkness by the earth. A partial   eclipse happens at least twice a year. And then there`s the big one, the total lunar eclipse. These are rare, often separated by years, and require the moon, earth and sun to be in   perfect alignment. But don`t think this blocks out the moon, as the moon shifts deeper into the umbra, it takes on a red hue which is sometimes   called a blood moon. The moon turns red because the atmosphere is filtering out color at the opposite end of the visible spectrum, the blue light. The short wavelengths   of blue don`t travel as far as the long red wavelengths, so they scatter before reaching our eyes, leaving behind the red glow. Not everyone on earth can see a lunar eclipse at the same time. You`ll need to be in an area facing the moon during the moments it`s shaded by earth. Unlike a solar eclipse, you don`t need any special equipment to enjoy a lunar eclipse. They`re safe to watch at any stage, although a pair of   binoculars might make it more fun. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  This week, 2022 had the second full lunar eclipse of the year. On Tuesday, the moon turned a coppery shade of red also known as a Blood Moon.   This happened when the entire moon was in the Earth`s shadow. Check out this stunning imagery. By the way, the next total lunar eclipse won`t happen until March 14th of 2025. Be sure to mark your calendars.   Unlike a solar eclipse, a lunar eclipse can be enjoyed from anywhere in the world that the moon is present during the night. All right. We have an extra mini quiz for you today. Environmentalists are battling a dangerous and invasive species in the waters of the Gulf of   Mexico, upsetting the balance of the ecosystem there. Any guesses? Maybe it`s a type of shark? No, it`s not. Maybe jellyfish? Nope, not it either. A type of algae? No. Humans? No. It`s actually something you may have seen swimming in an aquarium. We`re talking about lionfish. They`re taking over, but experts may have developed   a system to help contain the lionfish population and in turn created an opportunity for local restaurants and your belly. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC PLAYING) NICK WATT, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  These ecowarriors are heading into an unusual battle. The enemy: a dangerous and invasive species that is destroying the local habitat. ALEX FOGG, MARINE BIOLOGIST AND CONSERVATIONIST:  It has caused a pretty major problem in the Western Atlantic waters. WATT:  Leading the charge is Alex Fogg, a marine biologist and conservationist for Destin/Ft. Walton Beach in the Florida Panhandle. He`s   known as the lionfish guy around these parts. FOGG:  Lionfish is such a passion to what do I in my everyday life. WATT:  Lionfish are native to the South Pacific and Indian Ocean. They were first detected along the Florida coast in the mid-1980s, more than 10,000   miles from home. FOGG:  There`s a lot of theories exactly how they came to be. But the most likely option was that lionfish were in the aquarium trade and ended up   being released by a pet owner. WATT:  Over the years, the population has multiplied and is wreaking havoc. FOGG:  If you put them something into the ecosystem that`s not supposed to be there and they`re eating the same food as some of your native species,   there`s competition there or there`s grazers, like your parrot fish. If lionfish are preying on parrot fish, those parrot fish are no longer keeping the reefs clean and a lot of times the algae can overtake the reef   and cause a bunch of coral death. WATT:  To make matters worse, lionfish have no predators in these Western waters. FOGG:  It comes down to something else besides predators to take charge and keep these fish under control and that`s us, divers. There may be fishermen out there that maybe never would have considered themselves conservationists, but this is something where they can go   diving, they can go harvest the fish and help the ecosystem in the process. WATT:  They have to be careful though. Those spines along their back and sides, they`re venomous. FOGG:  You`re not going to, but you may shed a tear or two. WATT:  To keep their hands safe, divers use a long spear to catch the lionfish and the contraption called a zookeeper to contain them. FOGG:  It`s essentially a plastic tube that allows to you put the lionfish into it and prevents the spines from poking out and potentially stinging   you. You want to make sure that you`re not going to get stung. WATT:  The good news: lionfish happen to taste good and have become somewhat of a delicacy in upscale restaurants along the coast, like GW Fins   in New Orleans, where this has become a story of eat `em to beat `em. The restaurant worked directly with the spear fishermen, who supplied their lionfish. It is good for business and good for the environment. Crucially,   their methods avoid bycatch and target the enemy. MICHAEL NELSON, EXECUTIVE CHEF, GW FINS:  If you run out a net through the water, you really never know exactly what you`re pulling up. When it comes   to these spear fishermen, they are only harvesting exactly the fish that we`re looking for and nothing else. Sourcing is probably the most important thing we do to make sure we know who, when where and how all of our fish was caught. WATT:  Understanding why is important, too. If the lionfish population spirals out of control, it could eat many of the species the restaurant is   used to having on its menu. NELSON:  Really, the only way to incentivize people to get out there and eradicate these and catch as many as they can is to create a demand and a   market for them. Then, boom, you`ll have a lot more people out there, hunting for lionfish. WATT:  The goal is to control the lionfish population, not eliminate it. FOGG:  Lionfish will really always be here. It is just where they are going to find their place in that -- in the ecosystem and in the food web. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And for today`s 10 out of 10, a new study says that octopuses like to throw things at each other when they`re irritated. Check this out,   researchers in the new study released Wednesday observe octopuses in Jervis Bay, Australia, typically solitary creatures. The octopuses here live in   super tight quarters because of the abundance of food there and the close proximity of their dens. Scientists said that the octopuses appeared to   deliberately launch silt and even shells at nearby neighbors by using a jet of water from a funnel at the front of their bodies. If intentional, these octopuses would join a very few number of other species known to throw things at each other, including of course humans. Now, we want to thank all of you who are throwing us some love on our CNN 10 YouTube Channel. We`re going to throw it right back at you. Special shout-out now to Medicine Crow Middle School in Billings, Montana. Leaving you now with a Thursday thought. In 2019, a blind high school wrestler named Jay Spencer became Alabama state champ. Moments after   stepping off the mat exhausted in victory, Jay said, don`t let what anyone thinks about you change how you think. As long as you believe you can do   something, then you can. I`m Coy and this is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-11-11
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, everyone. We made it. It`s Friday, and you already know Fridays rock. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10, and I`m so pumped to be   right here with you. Let`s finish this week strong. We`re going to start in Florida, where another hurricane has made landfall. Hurricane Nicole slammed into Florida`s east coast Thursday morning, as a   category one storm, according to the National Hurricane Center. Wind speeds reached 75 miles per hour as the storm made landfall, but after moving   inland, Nicole weakened to a tropical storm. When we recorded our show, more than 300,000 residents across Florida were without power, and coastal residents in Florida and Georgia were impacted   by storm surge, or an abnormal rise of water generated by a storm. The National Weather Service says that almost half of all deaths from tropical storms, which have wind speeds registering 39 to 73 miles per hour   come from storm surge. Nicole`s storm surge measured Nicole nearly six feet and water levels remain high. Nicole is the first U.S. hurricane in   November in nearly 40 years. The storm is the latest in this calendar year and which hurricanes have had major blows to Florida`s Atlantic coast, the   most recent being Hurricane Ian, which struck the state in September. That storm was the deadliest hurricane to strike Florida since 1935, at least   147 people died as homes and businesses were destroyed. Some communities in Florida were still recovering from Hurricane Ian when hurricane Nicole hit   this week. Here`s more now from CNN correspondent Chris Nguyen in Florida amid the storm. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHRIS NGUYEN, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  High winds, heavy rains and significant flooding were expected throughout the night. You can see the   intensity of the conditions here in Cocoa Beach, which is why officials were urging the public to stay home as the hurricane got closer to making   landfall here in Florida. Now earlier, today, we were at a local supermarket as folks were stocking up on the necessities, really preparing for the potential for power outages   for the next day or so at least 16,000 utility workers are currently on standby here in Florida to help with power restoration efforts. Florida Governor Ron DeSantis also saying that he`s activated at least 600 Florida National Guard troops to assist with search and rescue efforts if   and when necessary. Now residents here in Brevard County were not required to undergo a mandatory evacuation. It was simply an advisory, but you could   sense that folks here were serious in terms of taking the advice of officials, businesses closed up early and for the most part roads remained   bare throughout the day. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Veterans Day originated with an observance marking the end of what war? The U.S. Civil War, World War I, World War II or the Vietnam War? The holiday observed on November 11th recalls Armistice Day, marking the end of World War I. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Today, November 11th is Veterans Day in the United States. It all started back in November of 1918, on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the   11th month of the year, an armistice went into effect ending the fighting in World War I. A year later, people in the United States first observed   Armistice Day. Twenty years later, after World War II, the day became an official national holiday. Then, after the Korean War in 1954, the name of Armistice Day was changed. It`s been known as Veterans Day ever since. The event honors everyone who   served in the U.S. armed forces. Events are scheduled throughout the day today as Americans pause to thank, salute, remember and respect the service   and sacrifices of all who served. Next up, we`re going surfing in Tahiti and we`re going to explore a playground of underwater enchantment. In 2019, the World Surf League   partnered with the non-profit Coral Gardens on a special mission to save the dying coral in the region. Coral is key to our environment and these   surfers are learning the science of how to preserve and regenerate the coral reef population in Tahiti. In addition to riding a jaw-dropping wave, let`s go there now with my colleague Jonny Velasquez. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JONNY VELASQUEZ, CNN PRODUCER:  Welcome to Tahiti, an island formed from volcanoes in the middle of the South Pacific Ocean, a paradise of lush   mountains, a diverse ecosystem in marine life. It`s a playground of underwater enchantments. And that`s where the adventure begins at World Surf League`s illustrious Outerknown Tahiti Pro. I flew to Tahiti. I want to find out why the world`s   most elite surfers would lay their life online riding this wave. Was it for the thrill? Maybe they were chasing that feeling of immortality? Teahupoo is considered the most dangerous wave in the world. What is it like surfing it? VAHINE FIERRO, PROFESSIONAL TAHITIAN SURFER:  It can be so scary, but when you overcome that fear, you can get the best wave of your life out there. JACK ROBINSON, PROFESSIONAL AUSTRALIAN SURFER:  I think Teahupoo is one of the heaviest waves in the world just because the amount of volume of water   that comes in. VELASQUEZ:  As we often find out in life, not everything is as beautiful as what meets the eye. In this place of pure bliss, underneath the surface, in   the most crystal-clear water I`ve ever seen, the reef is dying. In 2019, World Surf League partnered with an organization called Coral Gardeners. It`s led by Titouan Bernicot. Titouan is from the sister island   of Tahiti called Moorea. He and his crew have dedicated their entire lives to saving the reef. They do it through a process called Coral Reef   Rehabilitation. I met up with him. I was fascinated with this concept and wanted to learn more. TITOUAN BERNICOT, FOUNDER AND CEO OF CORAL GARDENERS:  At the moment on our planet, the coral reef conditions are not good. They are here on planet   earth since 400 million years, but in just three decades, we already lost 10 percent of our world`s coral reef. Scientists estimate that by 2050, 90   percent of the remaining one could be condemned. So, it`s an emergency. VELASQUEZ:  After my chat with Titouan, I still wanted to know more about the reef restoration process. I wanted to further understand the science   behind it all. I connected with former professional surfer Kaipo Guerrero, who now works as an analyst and commentator for the World Surf League. KAIPO GUERRERO, WORLD SURF LEAGUE COMMENTATOR AND ANALYST:  What`s happening with the rehabilitation program is we`re taking basically super   coral. So, coral that have not succumbed to bleaching and the warming of ocean waters. Now, those super coral, what we can -- are able to do is take a piece of that coral and then graft it, put it on the line and let that piece of   coral grow. And really when you talk about coral, corals an animal, right? It`s coral polyps, and within that that coral structure that`s kind of a   hive or kind of the house for the coral polyps. So, they keep on procreating, and they keep on growing. They keep on building a bigger,   bigger house. VELASQUEZ:  Is it too late to save the reef? GUERRERO:  There`s still time to save the reef. It`s not too late. We can change our ways. We can bring back the reef and that`s what you know the   good work at Coral Gardeners is doing and planting new coral. There`s -- it`s not -- we`re not too far gone, like we can make a change right now and   we can turn the corner and turn it around. So, it`s not too late. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s 10 out of 10, we`re traveling to Israel where researchers made a discovery that left them scratching their heads. A   seven-word inscription was discovered by accident on a 3,700-year-old comb made of ivory. It says: May this tusk root out the lice of the hair and the   beard. Looks like lice have been annoying people for a long time. The discovery is considered to be the oldest known full sentence in the ancient Canaanite   language. Happy Friday, lovely people. Keep in touch at Coy Wire on Insta, Snapchat and TikTok, or CNN 10 on YouTube. And we want to give a special shout-out now to Hickman High School in Columbia, Missouri. Have a wonderful weekend. And remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy, this is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with   you. END     

Date: 2022-11-14
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, everyone. I`m Coy Wire. Here to help you jump-start your week with the best minutes in news right here on CNN 10.  let`s start today with an update on the midterm elections. Last week, millions of adults across the country went to the polls to cast their votes   for representatives in Congress senators and state and local officials Democrats performed better than predicted. They are projected to retain   majority control of the U.S. Senate after winning a pivotal race in Nevada.  Now Democrats will hold 50 Senate seats with Republicans currently holding 49. A December runoff election in the state of Georgia could earn   Republicans a matching 50th Senate seat but Democrats would still hold a tie-breaking vote in the Senate which belongs to Vice President Kamala   Harris. But the race isn`t over yet Republicans may win the House of Representatives as votes continue to be tallied from a handful of   districts. If Republicans win the House, they could still stop a significant portion of President Biden`s Democratic agenda in his medical   proposals. Congress makes nationwide laws. The House decides which laws are voted on, while the Senate can approve or block them and confirm   appointments made by the president. Let`s hear now from CNN`s Jessica Schneider, a justice correspondent based in Washington. She has an update on President Biden`s proposal to forgive   some student loan debt which would need clear congressional authorization to go through. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JESSICA SCHNEIDER, CNN JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT:  A federal judge out of Texas who is actually nominated by President Trump is now saying President Biden   just does not have the power to forgive these student loans by executive order and instead, President Biden would need clear congressional   authorization to forgive these loans and he would have had to go through more of a process rather than just simply issuing an executive order.  However, we will see an appeal of this decision. The Justice Department has already noticed that it will appeal and this is ultimately a decision that   could be determined by the Supreme Court. Of course, President Biden issued this executive order in August. It`s estimated that if it goes through, it   would ultimately cost about $400 billion.  The program though now in doubt, and it`s also been on hold for the past month because of another court decision out of a circuit court that put the   loan forgiveness rollout on hold while all these legal challenges play out.  You know, we know that about 26 million borrowers already have applied for this debt relief. The government had already approved million of those   applications, but no debt at all will be canceled for the foreseeable future here because of these court challenges. The White House press   secretary did however say that the Department of Education will hold on to the information of all of these applicants so it could be processed pretty   quickly if the program is ultimately given the green light in court. But we`ll have to see how the courts decide this. If it does go all the way to the Supreme Court, it`s possible that the conservative majority on the   Supreme Court could nix this program as well. You know this has been a majority that`s often skeptical of wide-ranging executive and agency   action, so this debt forgiveness program could ultimately. Be deemed unconstitutional and if that happens none of these millions of people would   get any debt relief. But for now this program is also on hold. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next up, a film crew searching the Atlantic Ocean for World War II artifacts unexpectedly swam upon something much more modern, a 20-foot long   piece of the Space Shuttle Challenger which exploded shortly after liftoff in 1986. CNN`s space and defense correspondent Kristin Fisher has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT:  It was the space shuttle`s very distinctive heat shield tiles that really gave these divers   their first clue that perhaps they had found a piece of NASA`s old space shuttle Challenger and you can see in the video these white square tiles   that are you know partially covered by sand now in the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean and those white tiles would have been used to protect the   underbelly of the space shuttle from the very high temperatures that it would encounter as it re-entered the earth`s atmosphere.  So the lead team member on this expedition, the guy by the name of Mike Barnett, he had a friend who was a former NASA astronaut. He showed him   this video and that made them convinced that this is indeed what they had found. They brought it to NASA and NASA confirmed it, announcing the   findings just this week. And so, the big question now is what does NASA do with this? By law, any piece of a space shuttle is NASA property. So NASA is trying to find a way   to do something with this 20-feet section to do something that would really honor the memory of these seven astronauts that were killed back in January   of 1986, including Christa McAuliffe who of course would have been the very first teacher in space. Kristin Fisher, CNN, Washington. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which U.S. government agency measures job market activity and working conditions? Department of Commerce, Department of State, Bureau of Economic Analysis, Bureau of Labor Statistics? The Bureau of Labor Statistics serves as the statistical resource for the U.S. Department of Labor. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  For the past year, the job market has been strong. In October, the economy created 261,000 new jobs. But things may not quite be what they   seem. Job hires dropped to a low not seen in more than a year and a half.  We`ll hear now from CNN business and politics correspondent Vanessa Yurkevich who`s finding out why getting a job might not be as easy as some   might think, and how some people are getting creative to get noticed. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KARLY PAVLINAC, JOB SEEKER:  I`m open to all options. VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Karly Pavlinac is on stage in a high-stakes competition. The potential   prize: a new job. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  How do you make sure you`re working with the right talent, you`re finding the right connections? PAVLINAC:  The biggest thing is just being able to communicate the idea. YURKEVICH:  This is not the first time Pavlinac has done something unconventional to land an interview, since losing her marketing job in   September. After she didn`t hear back for a position at Nike, she sent them a cake with her resume on it.  PAVLINAC:  I`ve been applying obviously that hasn`t worked yet, so let me throw something new in the mix and see if that you know works. YURKEVICH:  Her resume cake making headlines.  PAVLINAC:  I`ve since talked to a bunch of people at Nike but still no job. YURKEVICH:  But the economic data tells a different story. The jobs market is strong. There are 10.7 million open positions, labor shortages and   hundreds of thousands of jobs being added each month.  Yet some job seekers even with a viral cake moment can`t seem to land one. LIZ ANN SONDERS, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST:  On the surface, this is still fairly strong labor market. But if you go a couple of layers under,   you are starting to see more significant cracks in the surface that suggest we should eventually see it in those more popular headline type labor   market readings. YURKEVICH:  Cracks like a slowdown in hiring, as seen in this week`s job opening survey. Hires dropping to 6.1 million, the lowest since February   2021, and the tech industry is shutting jobs percent more than last year.  PAVLINAC:  My perception of the job market was there were a ton of jobs out there and it was going to be easy to find a job, and that actually hasn`t   been the case. YURKEVICH:  Another crack of the 10.7 million open jobs, some companies might be advertising positions they aren`t actively trying to fill. PAVLINAC:  I have applied to many jobs that they`re still sitting there, that`s been a giant question in my head.  YURKEVICH:  It`s called pipelining talent. Companies post jobs to develop a pool of candidates. Recruiter Laura Mazzullo says she sees companies do it all the time. LAURA MAZZULLO, FOUNDER, EAST SIDE STAFFING:  Candidates don`t know that`s what`s happening. So they`re being pipelined when actually they think   they`re applying for an active job and this is where we`re seeing a bit of a disconnect.  YURKEVICH:  That may mean as the labor market weakens, job seekers can`t be as picky. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Our goal is potentially to give away two jobs tonight. PAVLINAC:  I have been picking in that sense of where I want to work but I know what I want. I`m still searching, still talking to people. I`ve come   to terms that it is taking longer than I thought. YURKEVICH:  Vanessa Yurkevich, CNN, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s 10 out of 10 is from Minnesota man James Rasmussen as we head into the holiday season. He`s hoping to avoid the terra bowel   experience he had last season. He couldn`t figure out who-who was cutting his outdoor Christmas lights. Turns out it was the owl who stole Christmas,   using the lights to deck its own halls, its nest under Rasmussen`s deck. Critters, there`s no talon what they`ll do. Better luck nest time Mr.   Rasmussen. Without further owl do, a special shout out now to Ryan Middle in Fairbanks, Alaska. Wishing you and everyone watching around the world some   motivation this Monday. Remember, someday, you`ll look back and refer to these as the good old days. So be grateful for the good. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-11-15
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Terrific Tuesday to you. I`m Coy. Grateful to be spending part of my day with you right here on CNN 10. We have a great show today, so let`s get to it. We`re going to begin with the news out of Bali where the G20 Summit is taking place. The global 20 is   an intergovernmental forum between countries that addresses major issues related to the global economy. President Joe Biden held a three-hour talk Monday with the president of China, Xi Jinping. The meeting was their first in-person encounter since   President Biden took office and an opportunity for both countries to improve deteriorating relations. Dialogue between them hit a new low in   August when U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi visited Taiwan, a choice that upset China. Expectations for major change were low headed into the meeting. The White House said in a statement afterwards that President Biden raised concerns   about China`s human rights violations, but that the two countries found areas of agreement especially when it came to the war in Ukraine. In addition, the two nations promised to work together on global climate issues, world health and food security, and they pledge to keep   communication open. But at the heart of the U.S.-Chinese relations is the Taiwan question. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  I`m Will Ripley in Taipei. The capital of ROC, the Republic of China, commonly known as   Taiwan. This island is a vibrant democracy of $23 million people and a key ally of the United States, about 100 miles from mainland China. SELINA WANG, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  And I`m Selina Wang in Beijing the capital of China, officially called the People`s Republic of   China. The PRC was founded in by the victorious Communist Party after a bloody civil war. RIPLEY:  On the losing side, the nationalists under Chiang Kai-shek who had ruled since the 1920s, they fled here to Taiwan where the ROC flag still   flies today. Two sides both claiming control of one country, a decades-long dispute, halting travel and trade and leaving a lingering threat of war. WANG:  Initially, both the United States and the United Nations recognized Taipei as the seat of the Chinese government. But amid the shifting   political relations at the height of the Cold War, that changed in the 1970s. The PRC replaced the ROC at the U.N. and the United States changed   diplomatic relations. It moved its embassy from Taipei to here in Beijing. While the U.S. has adopted a so-called one China policy, it has never recognized the communist party sovereign claim over Taiwan. Washington   continues to sell weapons to Taipei, but it has remained deliberately unclear about whether it would come to Taiwan`s defense in the event of a   Chinese invasion. It keeps Beijing guessing. JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  You know, you hear people saying Biden wants to start a new Cold War with China. I don`t want a cold   war with China. I just want to make China understand that we are not going to step back. We are not going to change any of our views. RIPLEY:  That looming threat of invasion is only part of China`s ongoing campaign to squeeze Taiwan. Decades of diplomatic pressure by Beijing means   this island has very few formal diplomatic allies, because any nation that wants to normalize relations with China has to sever formal diplomatic ties   with Taipei. The island`s Olympic team can`t even carry the Taiwanese flag. They have to compete under the name Chinese Taipei. In Singapore, in 1992, the two sides did agree at least in theory to the existence of one China. WANG:  It`s impossible to overstate just how important Taiwan is to the ruling communist party and its legitimacy. China sees the self-ruled island   as a breakaway province that must be reunified with the mainland, even by force if necessary. Reunification is also rooted in the communist party`s   goal to reverse China`s century of humiliation by colonial powers. That means returning China`s borders to something more like that of the Qing   Empire. It`s the basis of modern China`s claims to Xinjiang, Tibet, Hong Kong and Taiwan. RIPLEY:  Putting sovereignty on the back burner gave Taiwan`s economy a boost. Cross strait trade, tourism and money moving again. In 2015, the   ruling parties on both sides met again in Singapore, a historic summit between Chinese leader Xi Jinping and Taiwan`s then President Ma Ying-jeou. One year later, a turning point. Taiwan`s 2016 election of Tsai Ing-wen, the island`s first female president, leading a longtime pro-independence   party. Tensions rising ever since, something Taiwan blames on China`s plan to push its power across the Indo-Pacific. Taiwan`s young democracy divided   on the issue of unification with the mainland. The tide is turning. In 2020, Tsai won a landslide re-election, vowing to defend Taiwan`s democracy from she`s increasingly powerful and authoritarian China. Cross   strait ties plunging to their lowest level in decades. TSAI ING-WEN, PRESIDENT OF TAIWAN (translated):  The broadest consensus among the Taiwanese people and our various political parties is that we   must defend our national sovereignty, our free and democratic way of life. On this point, we have no room for compromise. WANG:  With U.S.-China tensions at an all-time high, Washington and Taipei have moved closer. In 2016, then U.S. President-elect Donald Trump broke a   decade-long precedent and spoke to President Tsai on the phone. He also elevated official exchanges between Washington and Taipei, a move that   infuriated Beijing. RIPLEY:  China`s refusal to condemn the Russian invasion of Ukraine has many here asking, what is Beijing planning for Taiwan, testing the island`s   defenses, flying scores of warplanes near the island, making President Xi`s long-standing calls for peaceful reunification ring hollow? REP. NANCY PELOSI (D-CA), SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE:  We will not allow China to isolate Taiwan. RIPLEY:  In August 2022, U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi became the highest ranking U.S. lawmaker to visit this island in 25 years, a move Beijing call   a major political provocation. In response, China launched military exercises beyond the median line encircling the island. During her visit, Pelosi delivered the unequivocal message that America stands with Taiwan. But if the time comes, would the U.S. send in American   troops to defend this Chinese-speaking democracy, a democracy with an uncertain future? (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: When compared to Earth, the atmosphere of Mars is? Thinner, thicker, or about the same? The atmosphere of Mars is over 100 times thinner than Earth. And actually, that thin atmosphere on Mars presents challenges for NASA. (END VIDEO CLIP) A new initiative from NASA called LOFTID could be a potential solution and will determine if a giant inflatable shield could protect spacecrafts   against the heat of re-entering the atmosphere. The shield can withstand 2,600 degrees Fahrenheit and at feet in diameter, it`s also the largest   blunt object ever to return from space. The technology would help spacecrafts enter Mars`s thin atmosphere because the Martian atmosphere   can`t decelerate a spacecraft as quickly and coolly as Earth`s atmosphere. And we`re ending today`s show with a bang for 10 out of 10. Check out this massive explosion in western Kentucky. Drop them like it`s hot. These three structures are actually cooling towers at a closed coal   plant. The towers were 435 feet tall until they weren`t. Tennessee Valley Authorities said the blast was done on purpose to clear the land for future use. The dramatic footage shows the towers slowly   collapsing to the ground with clouds of dust all around. The Drakesboro, Kentucky, plant was active for nearly 60 years before effectively closing   in 2020. And now to my favorite part of the day, I want to give a special shout out to Crown Point High School in Crown Point, Indiana. Go Bulldogs! Thank you so much for watching. It means the world to me and to my team. Today is National Philanthropy Day. So also shout out to all of you who go   out of your way to give back to your communities. Thanks for shining bright and setting a great example. I`m Coy. And this is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-11-16
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, everyone? It`s Wednesday. Are you hanging in there? Let`s smell the flowers and cool the soup.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10.  Just a few more days and we are on the Thanksgiving break. So let`s rock. We`re going to start today though with news out of India, where air quality   is an ongoing issue.  New Delhi, India, is the world`s most polluted capital according to IQAir, a Swiss company that measures air quality. It`s blanketed in smog every   winter as the cold air traps dust in the atmosphere above the city.  In March of this year, firefighters battled ablaze in New Delhi at a landfill site. The fire cloaked the area in a toxic haze and smoke choked   residents for days. Factories, construction sites and primary schools were ordered to shut down, and Delhi authorities urged people to work from home. There`s currently a debate in India over how to handle waste. There`s no processing of waste in most Indian cities, according to the government`s   central pollution board and in some cases trash is simply burned in open dump yards on the roads. Delhi`s 24-hour air quality index measures the concentration of harmful pollutants. Anything over 300 is considered hazardous and New Delhi`s   levels are as high as 470. The government is attempting to take stricter measures to tackle air quality as there are major health concerns for   citizens in India.  We`ll hear more now from Vedika Sud, a CNN reporter based at the New Delhi bureau who will introduce us to some of the people impacted by the poor air   quality and explain the science behind the toxic air. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VEDIKA SUD, CNN REPORTER (voice-over):  Seventy-two-year-old shopkeeper Narayan Choudhary suffers from chronic asthma. He says he almost died in   April this year after the landfill behind his house which is the size of a village caught fire.  NARAYAN CHOUDHARY, SHOPKEEPER (through translator):  It was a massive blade. It was difficult to survive. My face and nose started swelling. I   was gasping for breath. I could barely drink or eat. SUD:  Choudhary says had it not been for his friend who rushed him to hospital, he wouldn`t be here today. It was a dangerous combination of   methane, unsegregated garbage and record high temperatures earlier this year that sparked massive fires not only at the Bhalswa landfill but also   here at one of Asia`s biggest dump sites. Government data from 2019 says this Ghazipur landfill is almost stories tall and the size of s soccer fields. Methane is the second most prevalent   greenhouse gas and one company GHGSat found on a single day in March as trash decomposed more than two metric tons of methane gas leaked every hour   from the Ghazipur landfill. STEPHANE GERMAIN, CEO, GHGSAT:  When we take all the measurements that we took over a period of about a year, we found that the total emissions were   equivalent to emissions from approximately 350,000 U.S. passenger vehicles per year. SUD:  And methane emissions aren`t the only hazard. Dangerous toxins from landfills seep into the ground polluting the water supply for thousands of   residents living nearby. That`s the color of the water, a pale, dirty yellow and we`re barely hundred meters away from the foothill of the landfill. In May, CNN commissioned two accredited labs to test the groundwater around the Bhalswa landfill. The result, the groundwater within at least a 500-  meter radius around the wayside is contaminated. According to the labs, it`s unfit for drinking.  In the first lab report, the total dissolves solids from all three samples were off the charts. Amid other parameters, levels of ammonia and sulfate   was significantly higher than acceptable limits mandated by the Indian government. Results from the second lab report were equally worrying. Also iron traces in the first sample for both lab reports were at least eight times more   than the permissible limit. And while authorities bring in a supply of clean water, residents say they`re simply not enough for this densely   populated neighborhood, and that they must buy and consume purified water.  As part of his Clean India Initiative, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said efforts are being made to remove these mountains of garbage and   convert them into green zones. That goal if achieved could stem the suffering of those residents living in the shadows of these dump sites and   go a long way to curb the massive amounts of methane being released into the atmosphere.  With more than 3,100 landfills, the task is monumental and so far unrealized. And if decisive action isn`t taken soon, the consequences on   the global climate fight could be catastrophic and the toll on human life unimaginable. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: In what U.S. city would you find the famous museum complex nickname "the nation`s attic"? New York, Washington, D.C., Los Angeles or Raleigh? The Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C. is home to 19 museums, 21 libraries and is home to over 154 million eclectic holdings. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Up next, we`re traveling to Raleigh, North Carolina, to show you how big tech is making that city one of the fastest growing in the United   States. Raleigh even gained the recognition as the Smithsonian of the South because of its booming art scene and all the free museums you can choose   from. Let`s check it out. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORTER:  If you were to list the great art and educational centers of the U.S., you might think of New York or D.C. But you might be missing one,   here, Raleigh, North Carolina. Raleigh has long been a museum Mecca with a vibrant art scene. Now, big companies like Google and Apple are moving into the area, helping to make   it one of the fastest growing cities in the U.S. And as the city`s grown, Raleigh has gained more recognition as a cultural destination. The area   boasts more than locally owned art galleries, over 60 performing art spaces, and 140 pieces of public art in the downtown area, not to mention   over 50 historic sites and 17 museums, most of which are free, leading some people to call Raleigh and its abundance of cultural institutions the   Smithsonian of the south. VALERIE HILLINGS, DIRECTOR AND CEO, NORTH CAROLINA MUSEUM OF ART:  The state of North Carolina from the 20th century realized what an important   thing it was to offer to its citizens free museums, giving everyone an opportunity to learn about and experience different subjects. We opened our   doors in 1956.   REPORTER:  The North Carolina museum of arts collection stretches across different cultures and eras. It has dedicated galleries to Rodin, Jewish   ceremonial art. It even has an infinity mirror room sculpture by Yayoi Kusama, who has been nicknamed the most Instagramed artist in the world. HILLINGS:  As I like to say, all art is once contemporary and all art becomes history. We began to move single artworks around into other   galleries, unexpected galleries, that really changed how people saw this collection. One of the Wileys has been a real fan favorite as it`s been   paired with an earlier portrait of King Louis showing two young men having a great sense of swagger., REPORTER:  The museum also has the largest connected art park in the country, at a whopping 164 acres. HILLINGS:  It becomes like an outdoor art gallery. REPORTER:  The North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences is the largest of its kind in the Southeast and home to millions of plants animals gems and   to the second biggest earth on Earth. CHRIS SMITH, COORDINATOR OF CURRENT SCIENCE PROGRAMS, NC MUSEUM OF NATURALK SCIENCES:  It`s accurate down to the most minute detail. There`s a lot of great ways to get close to nature here at the museum and a lot of great ways to learn about what`s going on in the state of North   Carolina.  One of the main highlights, the reasons to come visit are the whale skeletons. That whale the Smithsonian tried to take it and we were like no,   we want it. These are dinosaurs that would have lived in prehistoric North Carolina. This is an eastern glass lizard and very active this morning good   to see him out. There are 50 states, North Carolina is the best because North Carolina has a little bit of everything that everybody loves. REPORTER:  Whether you`re interested in history, modern art or even Harley- Davidson drag racing, Raleigh`s got you covered. HILLINGS:  Many of the things you can see not only in New York but at museums worldwide, you can see here in North Carolina. But also you can see   things you won`t see anywhere else. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s 10 out of 10, yo, Adrienne! Over the weekend, thousands of runners in Philadelphia channeled their inner Rocky Balboa,   participating in the Rocky run. The Rocky movies set in the City of Brotherly Love are a rags to riches sports story about an underdog boxer   who outworked everyone and never gave up. Runners on Saturday took to the streets to have the chance to compete a 5K, 10K, or the full Italian   stallion half marathon. And we know all of viewer fighters out there, too. Never give up, never give in. Outwork everyone every single day. And make those dreams come   true, baby. Shout out time now. Pennichuck Middle School in Nashua, New Hampshire. Go Raiders!  Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our YouTube page for your shout- outs. We hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one. I`m Coy and I`ll see you next time on CNN 10.   END     

Date: 2022-11-17
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ANNOUNCER:  Five, four, stage engine start, three, two, one -- booster`s ignition and liftoff of Artemis I. We rise together back to the moon and   beyond. (END VIDEO CLIP) COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Happy Thursday, everyone, or as I like to say happy Friday eve. I`m Coy. Thankful to be hanging out with you. Time for   the best 10 minutes in news right here on CNN 10. Let`s rise together. We start today with the liftoff of the rocket we just saw. Yesterday, NASA launching its long-awaited Artemis moon rocket. The   mission was a long time and a lot of money coming. NASA has spent more than billion dollars to date getting Artemis off the ground. But there were scrubbed launches hurricanes and mechanical issues   that delayed takeoff for months. But the rocket finally got off the ground. This mission kicks off a key test of America`s ability to send astronauts back to the moon. Can you believe the last time humans were on the moon was   way back in 1972? That`s 50 years ago. But hold on a moon-it, there won`t be any humans on the moon just yet. There`s no crew for this expedition.   The rocket will come within 60 miles of the lunar surface before flying forty thousand miles beyond the moon and then looping back to Earth over   three weeks` time. The journey will conclude with a splash when the rocket lands at sea on December 11th. We`re going to hear now from CNN`s space and defense   correspondent Kristin Fisher about the first test flight of the Artemis moon rocket. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT:  This is, of course, an uncrewed first test flight for the Artemis moon rocket. It is a SLS   rocket, the space launch system rocket, with the Orion crew capsule on top. And so, what we`ve seen over the last few hours is launch and then the capsule separating from the rocket, and the rocket falling back to earth.   And now, this little capsule, the Orion capsule, is now making its way to the moon. It`s going to take about five or six days to get there. When it gets there, it`s going to fly by very close to the moon just about feet off the lunar surface before then traveling farther out into space   than any spacecraft ever designed to carry humans has ever flown, before flying back to earth testing out that all-important heat shield at the base   of the Orion capsule before splashing down into the ocean. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia, Thanksgiving themed. What type of food was definitely not present in 1600s New England when Pilgrims first arrived? Cranberries, pumpkin, potatoes or corn? Potatoes which are native to South America hadn`t been introduced to North America yet. They weren`t established crops there until the 1700s. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Officially, one week away from Thanksgiving now. What`s your favorite thanksgiving side dish mashed potatoes cream corn cornbread or   stuffing or dressing as some folks like to call it? Whatever you love, be sure to really love and appreciate it this Thanksgiving. Because due to inflation, Thanksgiving dinner will cost 20   percent more this year than last, and that was already considered the most expensive Thanksgiving ever. We`ll hear now from chief business correspondent Christine Romans on what you and your families can expect at the grocery store this holiday season. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHRISTINE ROMANS, CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  On the menu this year for Thanksgiving, rising prices. Overall, prices are up 7.7 percent from last   year and grocery prices are more than 12 percent higher than a year ago. Here`s what it means for the family grocery bill as you shop for the big day. First, the turkey. Per pound prices for turkey are up 17 percent year-  over-year. An average frozen turkey costs roughly $2.38 cents a pound. That`s up from a $1.74. Now you can blame the avian flu outbreaks and hire fuel feed and labor costs because of inflation running near 40-year highs. What about eggs?   Eggs cost 43 percent more than a year ago. Butter and margarine are up 33 percent. Flour is up nearly 25 percent. Your pies are going to cost more to   make. These higher prices could potentially change Thanksgiving plans. A new Wells Fargo report suggests some Americans may opt to eat out rather than   shop and cook at home this year. Dining out also can be cost the report says, but it may be a better value than one might expect. Government data backs that up year over year the cost of dining out rose at a slower pace than the cost of a typical grocery store run. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Speaking of Thanksgiving grubbing, one of the best parts is eating leftovers in my opinion like for days and days, right? But we all know some   people get skeezed out by that. Did you know though that the United States wastes 108 billion pounds of food each year? Well, maybe it doesn`t have to be like that. CNN reported   on the science behind food storage with expert tips on how to best store your food and to keep your leftovers from going bad. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORTER:  The kitchen is the heart of our homes and fortress for our fresh food. Taking pride of place, these gleaming apples and bananas might look   safe now, but when you open the fridge or cupboards a few days later, you can find your once fresh ingredients in a very different condition. And this often comes down to how you put them away in the first place. BRITTANY TOWERS LEWIS, FOOD SCIENTIST:  A lot of food is wasted. People buy in bulk and then end up not eating it. REPORTER:  So much food in fact that if food loss and waste were a country it would be the third largest emitter of greenhouse gases. To keep food for   longer and help the planet and your household budget in the process, there are a few things to keep in mind. LEWIS:  One is time. So obviously the longer you keep something, it will eventually go bad. Oxygen, there`s a lot of reactions that happen if you`ve   heard of oxidation. That kind of causes apples to go brown, for example when you cut them. Moisture can increase microbial growth, which is   something that we want to prevent because obviously bacteria, molds, light can also cause foods to spoil a little faster. Like potatoes, they`re exposed to light. They can turn green. They produce sprouts for example. REPORTER:  So, to avoid waking up to potatoes like this, you should keep them in a cool dark place, in a breathable bag to avoid moisture, and away   from fruits such as bananas. This is because bananas are climacteric foods which means they produce a lot of ethylene. LEWIS:  Ethylene, very fancy term. It`s a gas that causes fruits and vegetables to ripen. That`s why a lot of times when people are like, hey,   you want to ripen something put it in a bag with a banana, because bananas produce a lot of ethylene. So, it`ll cause it to ripen faster. REPORTER:  Salad leaves are another victim of bad storage, resulting in this all too familiar kitchen scene. LEWIS:  If you notice kind of your leaves aren`t lasting as long a really great way is to rinse them off and make sure they`re completely dry.   Vinegar not only will help kill or monitor bacteria but it`s also very acidic. So, most bacteria also don`t like acidic environments. REPORTER:  And remember the role moisture plays. LEWIS:  Bacteria love water and that`s what they use to grow. So, the more water you try to take out, the longer that they last. So, if you put a   little paper towel in, keep it in your refrigerator, that will help keep the lettuce a little longer. REPORTER:  But when it comes to herbs, a little H20 used correctly goes a long way. LEWIS:  If you cut the bottom stem part off and kind of put them in some water, in your refrigerator, that can help keep them a little longer.   They`re like a living plant. So, they`re in their little water and they`re drinking it up, instead of in like a bag from the grocery store that kind   of just like harbors just bacteria because everything`s like stuck together. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s 10 out of 10 is fantastic. Scientists discovering never seen before deep sea creatures at the bottom of the Indian Ocean near the Cocos Islands, an Australian territory. These   fish are freaky. There`s a deep-sea batfish looking like a baby Yoda thingy. And then this previously unknown species of blind eel. I mean, it makes me wonder what else could be down there or do we even want to know? All right. All my so-fish-ticated folks, it`s about that time. I want to give a special shout-out to Marianna High School in Marianna, Florida. We   see you. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10.   Go out and make someone smile today. Do the little things that make this world a better place. END     

Date: 2022-11-18
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. We made it to the weekend. Friday`s rock especially when they lead into a nice long holiday vacation.   I`m Coy. This is CNN 10, and we are pumped to be right here with you to finish this week strong. We`re starting today by concluding our months-long coverage of the midterm elections. Let`s reflect. On November 8th, Americans cast their votes for   representatives in Congress which consists of the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate, and they also voted for candidates for   state and local offices. The elections are called midterms because they happen in the middle of a president`s four-year term. After a close race and days of counting ballots Democrats retained the Senate, while Republicans won the House of Representatives. This means   Republicans can stop a significant portion of President Biden`s Democratic agenda. Remember, Congress makes nationwide laws. The House decides which laws are voted on. The Senate can approve or block them and confirm appointments   made by the president. The candidates who won their position will take office this January so we won`t see any changes until then. Pretty soon, the next batch of candidates will start campaigning for the elections in 2024 where the big race will be for president of the United   States. We`ll be here through the whole process updating you on the latest with no opinion or slant, just the facts. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: What country will host the 2022 World Cup? Japan, France, Qatar or Australia? The Middle Eastern nation of Qatar will host the 2022 international soccer tournament which kicks off on Sunday. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  The World Cup, it`s one of the most popular sporting events of all time. Every four years, the best players from across the planet represent   their nations in an epic soccer tournament. The world cup kicking off this Sunday in Qatar is the men`s tournament. The women`s is next year, and more   than one million people are expected to travel to Qatar. That`s more than a third of the nation`s entire population. This year`s tourney has been described though as the "World Cup of chaos". For the first time ever, it`s not being played in the traditional summer   months because for the first time ever, it`s in the Middle East where the Qatari desert would have been scorching hot during that time. So, players   in top leagues across the world are having to play this World Cup in the middle of their club seasons, meaning they`ll be exhausted. Also, the country of Qatar has been criticized for its human rights record. More now from CNN anchor and correspondent Isa Soares. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SEPP BLATTER, FORMER FIFA PRESIDENT:  The winner to organize the 2022 FIFA World Cup is Qatar. ISA SOARES, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  The sports world was stunned when FIFA awarded the World Cup to Qatar. Controversy took   center stage and football risked becoming a sideshow. Why was Qatar, a tiny desert state with no football pedigree, chosen to host FIFA`s showpiece   event? Even the disgraced former chief of football`s governing body has since described the decision as a mistake. BLATTER:  I was right at a certain time to say it is -- we should not go there. SOARES:  That move, 12 years ago, provoked unprecedented anger, accusations of corruption, and sportswashing. Qatari officials strongly denied the allegation that bribery was involved in their bid. Before a ball is kicked at the year`s tournament, attention has focused on Qatar`s human rights record. Its stance on same-sex relationship, and most   damaging to its reputation, the treatment of overseas workers drafted in to build essential infrastructure. Amnesty International claims authorities failed to properly investigate the deaths of thousands of migrant workers despite evidence linking premature   deaths with unsafe working conditions in the searing heat. Qatari officials say they investigate all reports of abuse and exploitation and are   committed to holding unscrupulous employers to account. When the final whistle goes at Qatar 2022, the legacy will be judged not only over 28 days of football but in the years that lie ahead. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next up, this is a sad and uncertain time for many people across the tech industry. Many workers are scrambling to seek new opportunities. Fears   of recession, rising interest rates and a shift to pre-pandemic lifestyles have all dealt major blows to the tech industry. More than 35,000 tech   workers across 72 companies have been laid off just this month, for a total of 120,000 tech jobs lost this year. We`ll hear now from CNN business and politics correspondent Vanessa Yurkevich who has more on the future of the industry. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  In three weeks, the tech industry lost tens of thousands of jobs. Historic   layoffs at Twitter, Meta, Lyft and Amazon. Layoffs.fyi, a crowdsourced layoff tracking site, puts it at more than 35,000 layoffs so far this   month. ROGER LEE, FOUNDER, LAYOFFS.FYI:  That`s the highest month since the pandemic. So that beats April 2020, which was 17,000 employees laid off. YURKEVICH:  Meta cut its workforce by 13 percent. CEO Mark Zuckerberg saying he`s taking accountability and apologizing to those impacted. New owner Elon Musk slashed half of Twitter staff with founder Jack Dorsey tweeting: The company grew too quickly, I apologize for that. And Amazon is laying off ten thousand workers this week, citing an unusual and uncertain macroeconomic environment. NELA RICHARDSON, CHIEF ECONOMIS, ADP RESEARCH INSTITUTE:  There were big investments made during the pandemic time while the rest of the economy for   example was plummeting by 3.4 percent. Tech grew by four percent. YURKEVICH:  But in a post-pandemic high inflation world, consumer behaviors and spending habits are changing, with the threat of recession on the   horizon. RICHARDSON:  I take this as a sign that maybe companies got over their skis at some point right and they`re trying to kind of sit upright again. YURKEVICH:  Roger Lee founded layoffs.fyi as the pandemic unfolded. Recently, he`s been digging deeper into the numbers. LEE:  There have been many companies who have been letting go half or more of their recruiting HR teams just because they`re not hiring as many people   anymore. YURKEVICH:  Aaron Backman, a recruiter at a tech company, was one of those layoffs. What did that feel like for you? AARON BACKMAN, LAID OFF FROM TECH COMPANY:  It was a really awful feeling. We were told really early in the morning an email saying layoffs are coming   today. And if you get a call, it`s going to be you. And I sat there for six hours on slack and watched my colleagues get laid off one by one. YURKEVICH:  Then he got the call. BACKMAN:  It`s depressing. YURKEVICH:  As American workers watch tech giants shed jobs at a rapid clip, many in other industries are asking, am I next? Should they be nervous? RICHARDSON:  First of all, the tech economy are just two percent of the labor market. Tech is an important part of the economy but it is not the   whole of the economy. The rest of the labor market is looking pretty good. The economy is adding jobs at a pretty healthy clip. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s out 10 of 10 is quite relephant to what we do here at CNN 10.   Alvin Kaunda does news in Kenya. He`s just trying to give his report on elevision when a baby elephant steals the show. Alvin does his best to stay   on task and focused until --   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ALVIN KAUNDA, REPORTER:  Save our wild species and provide a home --   (LAUGHTER) (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  The baby smellifant going trunk to trunk and the tickles led to giggles. Alvin said it`s took him 10 takes before he finally nailed this   take. Elephantastic. Maybe that elephant just wanted to see if Alvin was good at multitusking. I want to give a special shout out now to Caravelle Middle School in Carmel, Maine. Happy Friday, lovely people. My team and I are off all next week for Thanksgiving holiday, and I just want to say you all are one of the greatest things to happen to me. And I speak for my entire team in saying, we are so thankful for all of you, so fortunate to be part of your journey. We`ll be back with you Monday, November 28th. In the meantime, keep in touch @CoyWire on Insta, Snapchat and TikTok, or CNN on YouTube. Take care and many blessings to you. END     

Date: 2022-11-28
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, everyone?  Hope you had an awesome break and had some time to reflect on the things for which you are   thankful, something for which I`m grateful is all of you and I am pumped to be right back at it so we can finish 2022 strong together, just 34 days   remain in this year. We start today with news out of China. Protests have erupted all across the country, citizens taking to the streets in an unprecedented challenge to   Chinese President Xi Jinping`s zero COVID policy. Hundreds of people in China shouting the phrases "Step down, Xi Jinping. Step down, communist   party", and "Don`t want COVID test, want freedom". The Chinese government has faced mounting anger at its zero COVID policy which attempts to isolate every case of COVID in the country and shut down   the surrounding areas. Even almost three years into the pandemic, COVID tests, incessant lockdowns and quarantines have plagued the country. The   protocols have kept China`s infection rate lower than countries like the United States. The government, though, faces complaints about the economic   and human cost as citizens are isolated for weeks at a time with limited access to food and medicine, while the country suffers economically.  A deadly fired an apartment block in Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang, killed 10 people and injured nine more on Thursday. After the event video   suggested that COVID lockdown measures delayed firefighters from reaching the victims. The incident has been a further catalyst to the widespread   anger and defiance against the government, which is rarely seen in China, a country where the communist party cracks down on all dissent. We`ll hear more now from CNN international correspondent Selina Wang based at the network`s Beijing bureau with more on this movement. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SELINA WANG, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Anger is rising and tragedies are mounting but China shows no sign of budging on zero COVID.   Authorities are clamping down with more lockdowns, mass testing and quarantine, and people are getting more and more frustrated. Adding to the   anger is a fire that broke out in the capital of China`s far west Xinjiang region on Thursday night. Ten people were killed and nine were injured in a   fire at an apartment building in Urumqi.  Most parts of Xinjiang have been under lockdown for more than a hundred days. The deadly fire sparked nationwide outrage because widely circulated   videos which have now been censored in China show that COVID measures, COVID lockdown measures very likely delayed firefighters from getting to   the scene.  Now, state media claims that people in the compound were allowed to leave the building, that it was considered a low-risk COVID area. But video shows   fire trucks unable to get close to the scene because the compound entrance was partially blocked. The video shows it`s blocked with fences tents and   metal barriers that are normally used as part of COVID measures.  The videos also show smoke and flames coming from a high floor of the building but the water failing to actually reach the fire. What adds to the   tragedy is that those who died in the fire likely spent their last three months largely confined to that building if not entirely.  The fire really struck a cord with the public here because we`ve seen scenes of tragedy and suffering play out over and over again since the   start of the pandemic. Countless stories of people struggling to get enough food daily necessities and emergency care and lockdown three years into   these draconian policies, frustrations are more frequently turning into public protests which are normally rare and authoritarian China.  Last week, in the southern city of Guangzhou, some residents revolted during lockdown by tearing down barriers and marching through the streets.   There were violent clashes at the Foxconn factory in Zhengzhou this week. But still, there`s no end in sight to zero COVID. Selina Wang, CNN, Beijing. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: What type of star is the sun? Yellow Dwarf, Neutron Star, Red Dwarf, or Supernova? According to NASA, the sun is a 4.5 billion-year-old Yellow Dwarf star, at the center of our solar system. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Next up, we`ll hear how Heliogen, a renewable energy company in California`s Mojave Desert, is using concentrated sunlight to power more   than just your home. This new tech startup wants to replace fossil fuels with concentrated sunlight. But unlike traditional green energy suppliers,   this startup is able to store fuel to create power even when it`s dark outside or cloudy.  But while the company has major financial backers, it`s not a perfect solution. Stock prices are low and some question whether Heliogen can   execute on a large scale. We`ll hear now from CNN business producer Jon Sarlin. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JON SARLIN, CNN BUSINESS PRODUCER (voice-over):  In California`s Mojave Desert, renewable energy company Heliogen is working to harness   concentrated sunlight for more than just powering your home. Using artificial intelligence, these mirrors can produce the extremely high   temperatures needed to make things like concrete, steel and green hydrogen. So behind you are these mirrors reflecting light. Tell me what they`re -- what are they doing? BILL GROSS, FOUNDER AND CEO, HELIOGEN:  We`re taking a field of mirrors. Each one of them being moved precisely by computer algorithms to reflect   the sunlight to a single spot up on the tower behind us. At that single spot, we`re achieving temperatures that are almost a third the temperature   of the surface of the sun.  SARLIN:  What do you turn what these mirrors are projecting into? GROSS:  The end result is we get very high temperatures so we can make steam for heavy industry, we can melt aluminum, we can melt steel, we can   make concrete.  SARLIN:  It`s the algorithm that separates Heliogen from other concentrated solar power ventures. Heliogen doesn`t need complex mirrors. Instead, they   use cameras and computing power to align their mirrors to reflect sunlight onto a refinery tower. This process creates temperatures of about a   thousand degrees Celsius and all of that heat is directed and stored in big thermos-like containers. GROSS:  So the energy continues after the sun goes down or even on cloudy days. We hold enough energy for a week of no sunshine, so that industry can   run 24/7.  SARLIN:  Concentrated solar power is a renewable energy resource that`s been around for decades to generate power, but with mixed success. Its   primary disadvantage has always been the hours of the day the sun isn`t shining.  Heliogen`s process solves this problem by storing its heat and making green fuel like hydrogen that can be used to fuel electric generating stations. Okay. So you have this concentrated light source. You`re using it for power, for industrial uses, and for what else? GROSS:  Because we have continuous electricity. We can make hydrogen. So hydrogen is a miracle substance. It`s the most common element on earth.  SARLIN:  Heliogen is using the thermal energy it creates to make hydrogen. Ironically, most hydrogen is made using fossil fuels, which has limited its   production. What Heliogen is doing is making the process of creating a clean fuel clean. GROSS:  We already moved a molecule all over the earth in the form of oil and gas. Hydrogen is also a molecule which we can transport. So why is that   so important? The United States can be an energy exporter, a renewable energy exporter. SARLIN:  So are we there yet? GROSS:  We`re there. This is happening. Where we really need hydrogen is for trucks, for airplanes, for long distance transportation. All the places   where hydrogen is made right now in a dirty way, we`re going to make it in a clean way.  SARLIN:  So the question though is if we can do it, we can do it in the lab. But can we do it on scale? GROSS:  We are doing it at scale. That`s what you`re looking at here. SARLIN:  At scale? GROSS:  At scale. This is a scale technology with a multi-acre field gathering the sunlight from multiple acres, concentrating it, and using   that high temperature energy to split water and make hydrogen. SARLIN:  The company has major backers like Bill Gates. But still, Heliogen has faced obstacles. Your stock price has faltered over the last year. Is the business at where you want it to be? GROSS:  Absolutely. In all businesses, your timing has to be perfect. So what`s happened in the last year or so that makes the timing perfect? Well,   fossil fuel prices have tripled. So all of a sudden, you can go to business and say, I`m going to install a system for you that takes away the   volatility, you`ll have control over your own energy production and I`m going to meet or beat your price and with zero emissions.  The sun is a resource that no one owns. It gives us ten thousand times more energy than the whole humanity needs and it`s available for everybody. So   the innovation can happen everywhere. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a baby, a fur baby, and a big fur baby it is, at a British zoo. His name is Wilfred, in honor of World   War One era poet Wilfred Owen. Giraffes are the tallest animals on the planet. So at birth, they`re already taller than most humans, about six feet tall. Wilfred was born   November 11th at the Whipsnade Zoo in the United Kingdom.  Baby giraffes are born with horns too as you can see. And like human fingerprints, no two giraffes have the same pattern on their coats. Their   tongues are long enough to pick their own noses. Wilfred`s tongue will get to be 17 to 20 inches long when he`s all grown up and his heart will weigh   about 25 pounds. Hearts out and shout out to all of you. Our first of the week is going to Harry B. Thompson Middle School in Syosset, New York.  Wishing you and everyone watching around the world some motivation this Monday. You are smart. You are strong. You are more powerful than you know.  Good to be back. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10.  END     

Date: 2022-11-29
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Terrific Tuesday to you. I`m Coy Wire. And we`ve got a rendezvous with the news, so let`s go. We`re going to begin with news on the economy regarding the most wonderful time of the year, the holiday season, traditionally a big season for   shopping as well. This year, many shoppers are returning to their pre- pandemic routines, going back nearly three years now. Shoppers are expected to shop big around some key dates like Black Friday last week, but they`re   also predicted to make major purchases later in the shopping season, hoping to land deals.  This year, inflation has limited many shoppers budgets though. But retailer experts say that customers are pulling back on discretionary spending like   furniture and electronics and are being more selective about what they buy. Many Americans are dipping into their savings accounts and racking up debt   to make purchases as well. They`re also utilizing services like buy now pay later, which is a type of installment loan people might use instead of a   traditional credit card. Let`s break it down by the numbers. Online, Black Friday sales in the United States topped a record-breaking $9 billion this year, and were over   two percent higher compared to last year. U.S. shoppers spent a record $5.29 billion on Thanksgiving Day, up nearly 3 percent from a year ago.  Experts are predicting that American shoppers spent more than $9.5 billion across Saturday and Sunday, and that Monday will be the biggest online   shopping day again, growing more than five percent from last year to $11 billion. But some of that growth reflects higher prices, not necessarily   higher volume, due to inflation this year. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSIENESS AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  On this year`s holiday shopping menu, more sales but with a healthy side of   inflation. DENISE SALLETTE, HOLIDAY SHOPPER:  Cutting off your circulation. I`m going crazy. YURKEVICH:  Denise Sallette is in the middle of her holiday shopping at Willowbrook Mall in Wayne, New Jersey.  SALLETTE:  This is for my mom. And then I got stuff for my kids and my niece and, oh my God.  YURKEVICH:  This year, the wish list is looking a little different. Last month, inflation cooled but was still running hot at 7.7 percent year-over-  year. SALLETTE:  I`ve had a cutback on shopping because things are too expensive. I mean, I do have three girls. They do understand that, you know, times are   hard right now and it`s just me being a single mom. YURKEVICH:  Despite high inflation, the National Retail Federation estimates that nearly 8 million more people will shop between Black Friday   and Cyber Monday and spend up to eight percent more this year than they did last year. MATTHEW SHAY, PRESIDENT, NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION:  We`re looking at records in all categories. It is remarkable in the face of the cost and the   price pressures that consumers are still finding a way to increase their spending power the economy, drive economic activity. YURKEVICH:  Last month, retail sales beat expectations, up 1.3 percent in October. But this month, consumer sentiment fell. Still, higher prices   haven`t stopped some people from shopping. Has that impacted the way you`re going to spend this holiday season? CYNTHIA PENDELTON, HOLIDAY SHOPPER: For me, not really because I try not to overspend anyways. So even before this is going on, I try not to exceed   what I can do.  YURKEVICH:  And according to the National Retail Federation, while online sales are expected to increase this year, a return to in-store shopping   will make up a larger portion of all holiday sales. PENDELTON:  I kind of like in person more. YURKEVICH:  You do wise up. PENDELTON:  I don`t know. It`s just more of the feel of being able to touch it, being able to see it, being able to try it on for the stores that you   allow to, and then being amongst everybody else. YURKEVICH:  It`s that holiday nostalgia that Willowbrook Mall says will help this year`s shopping season return to pre-pandemic expectations. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: What group of islands is the most isolated population center in the world? The Galapagos, The Solomon Islands, Hawaii, or The British Isles? Answer is Hawaii. Surrounded by the Pacific Ocean, the U.S. state is over 2,000 miles from California, nearly 4,000 miles from Japan. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Up next, the world`s largest active volcano. The Mauna Loa in Hawaii, it`s erupting for the first time in nearly years. The eruption is   prompting an ash fall advisory for Hawaii`s big island and surrounding waters.  The good news, there`s no evacuation notice at this time. Lava flows are contained in the summit area and are not threatening to harm downslope   communities according to the Hawaii Volcano Observatory.  The bad news is asphalt from the volcano could damage vehicles and buildings, contaminate water supplies, disrupt sewage and electrical   systems. It could even damage or kill vegetation.  Mauna Loa has erupted 33 times since 1843 and covers half of the island of Hawaii and it`s only 21 miles west of one of the most active volcanoes in   the world, Kilauea, which is also currently erupting. When it erupted in 2018, it destroyed more than 700 homes. All right. From lava to dragon eggs. There`s new drone technology that`s improving an effective technique used to prevent wildfires, right? But it   might not be what you think, not a soaring fire extinguisher or a water dropping drone. They`re drones that drop fire in the form of, quote, dragon   eggs to perform something called prescribed burning or starting a fire in order to avoid one later.  But some experts say that the technique is dangerous for firefighters. CNN business producer Jon Sarlin is here with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JON SARLIN, CNN BUSINESS PRODUCER:  This fireball-dropping drones are improving one of the oldest and most effective ways of preventing extreme   wildfires, prescribed burning. CARRICK DETWEILER, CO-FOUNDER AND CEO, DRONE AMPLIFIED:  Prescribed fires basically work by doing a very low intensity burn that will burn up the   dead leaves and sticks that would cause major wildfires when they dry out later in the summer. We can reduce these huge wildfires by using more fire   when it`s safe to do so. SARLIN:  Many experts say prescribed burning should be used more often but it can be dangerous for firefighters.  DETWEILER:  They`re often hiking out into the middle of mountains with a drip torch or they`re riding an ATV and then you have helicopters with the   whole crew on board flying really low and slow over the fire about a quarter of all while then firefighting fatalities are related to aviation.   And for me, this really was a motivation to get these systems into the hands of firefighters. SARLIN:  Robotics researcher Carrick Detweiler started his company Drone Amplified to make prescribed fires safer, easier, and less expensive. DETWEILER:  Our system doesn`t cover the amount of area that a helicopter can, but you can deploy tens or hundreds of our systems for the same cost   as a helicopter. SARLIN:  On a 50-pound drone, Carrick secures a device that can carry 400 fireballs that ignite when they land on the ground.  DETWEILER:  We call these dragon eggs. They have potassium permanganate when you mix it with glycol, it starts a chemical reaction and a fire. SARLIN:  The drones allow firefighters to work at a distance from the flames and areas difficult to reach due to terrain or visibility. DETWEILER:  And this is really doubling the amount of time that firefighters can fight the fire when it`s dark, when it`s smoky, when other   airplanes can`t be out there. You can drop the balls in specific locations and this lets you do much more precise burns. SARLIN:  Precision is important, because even though prescribed burn escapes are extremely rare, the outcome can be devastating.  Two recent controlled burns in New Mexico led to the state`s largest wildfire on record. DETWEILER:  Our system can help prevent escaped fires through the use of thermal cameras. You can see through smoke and look for any fires outside of the fire boundary. Our app also allows the firefighter to put in geofences to precisely control where the fire is starting and this lets the firefighters actually   control the intensity of the fire. SARLIN:  Carrick says a hundred of their drone systems are now working for clients like the U.S. Forest Service and other federal agencies. But in the   future, they envisioned similar systems in the back of every firefighter`s truck. DETWEILER:  When firefighters are widely deploying these, we`ll really be able to get up to doing more prescribed fire that`s needed to mitigate   these wildfires. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next up, we`re taking a journey to the far side of the moon, and it all starts with a selfie. NASA`s Orion spacecraft snapped a selfie as it   approached the moon. The spacecraft was eight days into its and a half day mission at the time. The journey will go more than forty thousand miles   beyond the far side of the moon and if Orion completes its journey, it`ll be the farthest a spacecraft intended to carry humans has ever traveled. This selfie was snapped with a camera, on one of the capsule`s solar panels. Pretty cool if I do say so myselfie.  And now on to my favorite part of the day. Special shout out to Calhoun Middle School in Denton, Texas. We see you.  Today, November 29th is Giving Tuesday. Every year on a Tuesday after Thanksgiving, people take time to give back. Whether that`s donating money   or lending a helping hand or maybe you could just go out of your way to make someone smile today. Let`s make this a great one, everyone. I`m Coy and this is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-11-30
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, everyone? It`s Wednesday. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10, and you are awesome. We`re going to start today with a follow-up on the World Cup being played in the Middle Eastern country of Qatar. Yesterday was a huge soccer match   between the USA and Iran, not just because it was a win or go home match for USA or that it was a win or draw or go home for Iran, but because of   the political talking points surrounding the match. Some World Cup teams have been showing solidarity with anti-regime protesters in Iran who are fighting for women`s rights. Some Iranian   players even refrained from singing the national anthem ahead of their first match to show solidarity with protesters. But things really got heated when the U.S. Soccer Federation altered the Iranian flag on one of their graphics online, removing the Islamic emblem   from the center of it. As a result, Iran called for FIFA, the World Cup organizers, to ban Team USA from the World Cup. That didn`t happen, all   this adding attention ahead of the match. Players from both sides while they do care about issues outside of sport, they really want to just focus on the game and their dream of playing in a   World Cup. On Tuesday, the match finally arrived, and CNN correspondent Andy Scholes was at a watch party to take in the action. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANDY SCHOLES, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  The party is on here in the U.S. at Fado Irish pub in Atlanta, Georgia, as Team USA is moving on. They had only   scored one goal since June and that was against Wales last week, in their opening game of the World Cup. The fans here tense, waiting for the goal   because they had to win the game. A tie wouldn`t cut it this time around. And into the 38th minute, this place just exploded when Christian Pulisic   came through with that goal to give the USA the 1-0 lead. They would hold on to win by that final score and they are now moving on to face the   Netherlands. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It was incredible. I thought we played the first half brilliantly. Towards the end, I was a little scared when we went defensive.   But in the end, it all worked out. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  So proud, so ready to the next round. I think we`re going to kill it. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This team is young, they`re hungry, they don`t 90 stop minutes strong. We got through it today. So happy, unbelievable win for the   USA. Let`s go baby all the way. SCHOLES:  And, Coy, as you can see this win meant so much for Team USA and their fans. And, hey, the good news is we get to do it all over again on   Saturday. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right. As we mentioned yesterday, the world`s largest active volcano, Mauna Loa in Hawaii, has erupted for the first time in nearly   years. Its neighbor, the Kilauea volcano, sits just 21 miles away and it began erupting more than a year ago. So, this rare dual eruption is expected to attract visitors from all over the world actually. Next, we`re traveling to Hawaii with senior national correspondent Sara Sidner who recently flew over volcanoes in Hawaii to get a better   understanding of the changing landscape and the science behind and under volcanoes. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SARA SIDNER, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  As the sun rises each morning here in Hilo, Hawaii, it reveals destruction and   creation happening simultaneously at the heart of Hawaii Volcanoes National Park. I witnessed this from new heights with pilot and volcano expert   Samantha Hanson. From up above, the full scale of volcanic activity is clear. SAMANTHA HANSON, PILOT:  If you look out here across the horizon, you see all these like little mini mountains out here, and these are all cinder   cones. So, they`re almost like many volcanoes right on the side of the big volcano. This whole thing right here that we`re flying over right now, this   is Mauna Loa. This is the largest volcano on the planet. SIDNER:  You really see how the lava spread out. HANSON:  Yeah. SIDNER:  I mean, it`s very apparent. HANSON:  If you were to cut the island in half, it would look like Swiss cheese. It`s just riddled with these lava tubes. As the island gets bigger   and bigger, right, there`s lava tubes, kind of, you know, build on each other. SIDNER:  But most of the volcano isn`t what you see here. It`s underwater where eruptions can and do occur, like the massive explosion in the waters   off Tonga, just one of the over potentially active volcanoes worldwide, capable of creating earthquakes, tsunamis and entirely reshaping the   landscape. One of the most devastating eruptions in Hawaii happened here in 2018 at Mount Kilauea where we joined volcanologist Kendra Lynn. KENDRA LYNN, VOLCANOLOGIST, U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY:  This was most significant collapse event that`s really been recorded and observed since   Western visitors arrived at the volcano. SIDNER:  Lava at 2,000 degrees Fahrenheit crept across the island oozed over homes and roads and burst out of fissures. The eruption went on for   over 100 days, destroying more than 700 homes and forcing thousands to evacuate. That one event dramatically changed the landscape. LYNN:  Here at the summit, almost daily, there was a magnitude earthquake as all of these rocks just started to collapse in on themselves and create   the new crater. Which are kind of larger. SIDNER:  And the destruction brought a new course of exploration for Kendra, the study of rocks and how they form. LYNN:  We often looked to the rock record and the different types of rocks that are preserved around the volcano to understand past behavior. We look   for patterns that might clue us into how the volcano will behave in the future. SIDNER:  Is there any prediction as to when the next eruption might be or what it`s going to look like? LYNN:  It`s difficult to say when, but we do know for sure that it will happen again someday. SIDNER:  Scientists are working hard to determine just how catastrophic that eruption might be. MICHAEL NEWMAN, PARK RANGER, HAWAII VOLCANOES NATIONAL PARK:  What`s really remarkable about Hawaii is that it`s a living landscape. It`s a place where   the volcano breathes. We can see the steam breathing from the crater. We can feel the movement of the earth. We can see land being created as we   speak, and it`s a place where we can really become in touch with nature. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which of these American retailers started in 1886 as a watch company? Sears, Target, Big Lots, or Costco? Considered to be the Amazon or Walmart of its day, Sears went on to become one of America`s biggest retailers. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Once America`s largest retailer and business employer, with an extensive retail network, Sears has struggled in the 21st century. It had   more than 350,000 employees in 2006. But today, there are only 15 full-line Sears stores still open across the country and the company filed for   bankruptcy years ago. We`ll hear now from CNN`s Rachel Crane on the slow demise of the iconic chain and how it was once both the Amazon and Walmart of its day. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RACHEL CRANE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Sears is in trouble, closing thousands of stores and losing billions of dollars. But once upon a time,   Sears transformed the way Americans shopped. Back in the late 1800s in Minnesota, Richard Sears was spending his days as a railroad station agent, until one day, he sold some watches from a local   jeweler and realized he was really good at selling. So, in 1886, he started a mail order company, the RW Sears Watch Company, and eventually hired a watchmaker Alva C. Roebuck. And in 1893, Sears   Roebuck and Co. was born. Sears then became a very successful mail-order catalog company. This business model broke the mold. Remember, most Americans were living in small towns with access to only a few stores. They often made their own   clothes and furniture or did without. Sears early catalogs only featured watches and jewelry. But soon these catalogs were more than 500 pages long, people could buy anything, from shoes, wagons, stoves and musical instruments. Sometimes,   people even bought their homes directly from Sears. And because Sears bought in bulk, the company was able to charge customers lower prices. In 1925, Sears opened its first retail location in Chicago, and it wasn`t just retail. Sears had a radio station, a mortgage business, a credit card.   Sears was everywhere. Annual sales hit one billion dollars in 1945. The next year, sales doubled. Once Americans started to move to the booming suburbs after World War II,   Sears began investing to help build malls. By 1970, Sears was considered untouchable by its rivals. But not all stories have a happy ending. As the 20th century came to a close, so did Sears` reign. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s 10 out of 10, check out this house. University of Maine unveiling the world`s first bio-based 3D printed house in partnership with   the U.S. Department of Energy. It`s a sustainable composite home made of recycled material. The technology could be a solution to address the   nation`s affordable housing crisis, while also helping the environment and it`s pretty darn purty, too, with some nice modern fixtures. So far, so   good. If they`re offering mortgage, they definitely have my interest. All right. Shout out time now. Charlestown, Indiana, Charlestown High School, we see you. Also, shout out to Ms. Alexander from Stone Mountain, Georgia, who I got to meet here at CNN Center yesterday and her student Rashimir (ph) who picked   out my tie today. Well done, sir. My team and I hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one. I`m Coy and this is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-12-01
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. Can you believe it`s December 1st already? I swear it feels like it was just November yesterday.   But no, just like that, only one month remaining in this year, so let`s make it great. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we`re starting with news out of China today, where protesters are taking to the streets in a rare display of defiance against the country`s   ruling communist party. The people are rising up against the zero COVID policy, a strategy that China has been using to limit the spread of COVID. But while the policy has kept China`s virus levels lower than other large countries, it`s placed millions of people under lockdown and quarantine,   limiting their access to food medicine and family. It`s also hurting the economy and restricting travel. Anger boiled over last week when a fire in an apartment building killed at least 10 people. Some believe the tragic deaths could have been prevented   were it not for the anti-virus restrictions that may have prevented first responders from arriving more quickly. The authorities aren`t messing around when it comes to shutting down the demonstrations and acts of defiance online as well. Hundreds of armored   vehicles have been deployed to the streets. Authorities have vowed to, quote, strike hard if necessary. The number of people detained as a result   of the resistance is not known at this time but the punishment for protesting in China can be severe. Senior international correspondent Ivan Watson has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  China`s police state strikes back, flooding the streets of Beijing and Shanghai   with police, an unmistakable show of force after a weekend of unprecedented protest in at least 15 cities across the country. In the eastern city of Hangzhou Monday night, police arrested people in a central square. And an eyewitness tells CNN police searched people`s phones   on the Shanghai subway, looking for apps that allow users to circumvent Shanghai`s strict Internet censorship. The communist party`s domestic security committee ordering officials to resolutely strike hard against infiltration and sabotage activities by   hostile forces, as well as criminal activities that destabilized social order. No compromise for peaceful protesters to voice their opinion. Meanwhile, health officials striking a slightly softer tone, calling for shorter lockdowns in the Chinese government campaign to eradicate COVID-19. CHENG YOUQUAN, CHINESE CTR. FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (through translator):  We need to minimize the inconvenience to the general public   because of the anti-COVID-19 measures. As for the high-risk regions, we must have rigorous control. But at the same time, we should spare no effort   to provide services to meet people`s basic living needs and medical needs. WATSON:  A carrot and stick approach from different parts of the Chinese state, after the biggest nationwide display of discontent that this tightly   controlled country has seen in a generation. Ivan Watson, CNN, Hong Kong. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next up, we`re going inside a cryptocurrency mine. Unlike the dollar, the euro, yen, franc or pound that you can put in your pocket,   cryptocurrency is completely digital. It`s created with encrypted computer algorithms. Many experts are quick to point out the issues with crypto, though, including market instability bankruptcies lawsuits and how it can actually   harm the environment because the computers give off massive amounts of heat. That`s why they`re stored in crypto mines. We`ll go now to northern Sweden with CNN reporter Anna Stewart who`s found a mind that may be more sustainable for the environment if their plans to   use the heat to grow things we can eat come to fruition. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER:  Well, this is what a crypto currency mine looks like the frozen rows of computers, in fact, there are 116,000 here.   As you can hear, it sounds pretty noisy, and I can say that it feels really hot up close to these machines. There`s about a 30 degrees centigrade   difference though between here and here under one of the big bends where you`re getting the cold air from outside. So, you can feel the energy that   is coming out of these lots of power a small city, one of the reasons crypto mining can be just so controversial. But that is why Hive Blockchain Technologies have set up shops here in the north of Sweden. Come take a look why. Outside, some 500 meters along the River Lulea is a hydrogen power plant, a source of abundant cheap and renewable energy. JOHANNA THORNBLAD, PRESIDENT, HIVE BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGIES:  This is the energy that is powering the Boden community and our data center that is   located just nearby so this is also one of the main reasons that Hive has decided to bet on the Boden community. STEWART:  Given Europe is in an energy crisis, there will be people that think this is renewable energy. Should it be used for crypto mining?   Shouldn`t it be used to power people`s homes and industry, keep lights on in hospitals? What do you say to them? THORNBLAD:  There are not enough inhabitants or companies to use all the energy that is available, so the community of Boden was inviting data   centers to come to use this renewable stranded energy really. STEWART:  One crypto mining company is not just turning a profit in the midst of a crypto winter but also trying to forge a greener future, there   are nearer term plans to turn the excess heat from the crypto mining into something more fruitful. THORNBLAD:  In the spring, we`re going to support a Swedish company called Actira (ph). So they`re building a huge, big greenhouse just at the back of   our data center. And so, we will have tomatoes and cucumbers grown all year round in the very north of Sweden. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: What is the geographical region at the base of South America which covers parts of Chile and Argentina? Colombia, Patagonia, Marmot, or North Face? Patagonia is your answer here, a nature lover`s paradise where you could hike the Andes Mountains. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next, we head to Patagonia on the Chilean side, home to some of the most tantalizing topography and wondrous wildlife on the planet. The remote   and rugged coastline region in south America is known for its gorgeous glaciers, beautiful lakes and rivers. But this region may be in danger. We`ll meet Vreni Haussermann now, a marine biologist studying the wildlife in the region. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VRENI HAUSSERMANN, MARINE BIOLOGIST, SAN SEBASTIAN UNIVERSITY:  For me, Patagonia is the most beautiful part of Chile. It`s a very remote, very   wild and rugged coastline. Full of green forest, temperate rainforest, has lots of glaciers, rivers, lakes and the coast is very steep. The marine life came from deep waters but also from adjacent areas and so the diversity we find in fjords is elevated compared to other coastlines. My name is Vreni Haussermann. I`m a scientist working at the University of San Sebastian and I`m studying the marine biodiversity of Chilean   Patagonia. Diving in Patagonia, we found many species that haven`t been described before. The coastline is more than 100,000 kilometers, which is twice   around the world. Only a handful of scientists working there. So even if we studied all the main areas, there are still most parts that we don`t know yet. Chilean Patagonia was free of human impact for a long time, but in the `80s when aquaculture moved in, it started to be impacted. Life in the fjords   has been reduced in abundance. There are species we hardly don`t find anymore. By impacting an area where we know very little about, we always have the risk that we are damaging ecosystems and the equilibrium of the ecosystems   is lost. I hope that humanity understands the need of protect our planet. I hope humanity understands the need of protecting the oceans and our lives and   the lives of all future generations depend on a healthy ocean and a healthy planet. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And for today`s 10 out of 10, a reminder that it`s never too late to right a wrong. In Minnesota, a library book was finally returned after being checked out 47 years ago. For decades, a Mercedes-Benz repair manual was missing from   the shelves but earlier this month, it was mailed back with 200 bucks and an anonymous handwritten note saying that the sender had been fixing their   car and although they probably couldn`t afford the late fees maybe the library could buy a new book instead. Hope that dude finally got his car fixed. And you know I went to a bookstore the other day and saw a book called "How to End 50 Percent of Your Problems". So, I bought two. Shout out time now. Hanover Online School in Ashland, Virginia, thanks for subscribing typing and commenting on our YouTube channel. And thanks for   all the love, @CoyWire on Instagram, Snapchat, and TikTok. It is Thursday. So happy Friday eve people. My team and I are already working on a plan to finish this week strong with you right here on CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-12-02
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. What a wonderful day. It`s Friday and you already know Friday`s rock. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10,   where we break down big news stories and easy to understand explanations with reporters all over the world, no opinion, no slant, just the news and   we love having some fun with you. Starting with some good news today. Hurricane season is officially over in the United States. The hurricane season runs from June 1st to November   30th. And this season was notable for several reasons. One, it was calm the first half of the season. No hurricanes from July 3rd to the end of August, for the first time now since 1941. But the second   half, three destructive hurricanes did hit the United States. Here`s a breakdown: despite the slow start, there were 14 named storms, eight hurricanes, two of them major, registering category 3 or higher.   Hurricanes Ian, Nicole and Fiona were among the most notable. Hurricane Ian made landfall as a category 4 storm, killing nearly 150 people, destroying homes and businesses. Tropical storm Ian also caused   more than $50 billion in estimated damage. Several hundred Florida Keys residents marking the end of this hurricane season by gathering on Wednesday to celebrate. They burned hurricane   warning flags. Some people though are still cleaning up damage left behind, mourning loved ones taken by storms. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: In which of these U.S. states would you find a zip code that starts with a number 1? New York, California, Texas or Florida? Zip codes starting with a one represents New York, Delaware and Pennsylvania. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Next up, I want to introduce you to a very special principal who`s empowering her students and defining her school`s sense of pride. Principal Lisa Caldwell Linder from Brownsville neighborhood in Brooklyn came from what some would consider a rough neighborhood. But she always   believed that she could rise above any of the negative aspects surrounding her and she did. Over time, she coined a phrase: "I am not my zip code". And she`s using that phrase now to empower her students at her school and make them realize   that they too can rise up higher than others might assume as possible. Meet Principal Lisa Caldwell Linder. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NATHALY WARNER, FORMER ASSISTANT PRINCIPAL:  Ms. Linder sees natural abilities within people. KADIR ELLISON, FORMER STUDENT:  That`s what I loved about her, that she just kept us on the right track. TRISTAN MILLS, JR., FORMER STUDENT, ASSISTANT BAND DIRECTOR:  Ms. Linder honestly gave me a safer environment. LISA CALDWELL LINDER, PRINCIPAL, PS/IS 184 NEWPORT:  My favorite phrase is "don`t let the zip code fool you", because a lot of people do that. I am a   product of Brownsville. My zip code growing up was 11212, and I`m sure if we Google one, one, two, one, two, all of the negatives will be exposed. I want our students to feel good regardless of their zip code. PS/IS 184 is a haven for learning. Attendance might be a challenge for a lot of our students because a violent crime may have been committed in the   -- in the neighborhood, may have been committed in their complex, and there`s some level of fear. Hence, that`s why we try to create the safest   environment internally. SUBTITLE: In order to improve attendance, Principal Linder created arts programs to encourage students to come to school. LINDER:  When I came here, I was a big advocate of the arts. Whole classes would just go to this one art teacher and no other arts offerings were made   available. We instituted the following year where students were provided with an option to select which elective they would go to. So, to date, and we have the only marching band in district 23, we have added dancers to go along with the marching band. Broadway Jr. is like the   creme de la creme of 184.  This year, we`re doing Willy Wonka. So, you can see the difference. Students want to be present in school because we`re rehearsing for Broadway Jr. We`re performing for the   Christmas showcase, right? So, I have to be present. So, we recognized by doing all of those things, it supported us with improving our attendance. Since the 10 years I`ve been here, we`ve seen sort of a roller coaster, I`ll be honest, right? But we knew that we had to add and provide more. As   a community school, we have a community resource director who identifies the gaps, what`s not here. WARNER:  We are pretty much the hub of the community. Yeah, so when our parents are in need, they can come. LINDER:  How many parents are taking their children for exams? We`re going to have the eye exams right here on site. WANDA SPEEDE, COMMUNITY RESOURCE DIRECTOR:  Today, as you can see, we had our food distribution of fresh produce, because we go into the supermarkets   in the area, we will notice that there`s a dearth of fresh natural foods. So, our book distribution, these are books that we`ve accumulated over the years, we`ve used them as class sets. We actually distribute those for free   to families. So, we`re excited that we can do this for the community. LINDER:  I will be retiring after 30 years with the New York City Department of Education. I felt like I had left an indelible impact on the   school community and all the other communities I have worked in. AUBREY NICHOLSON, FORMER STUDENT:  Ms. Linder is an amazing person, and I would say that the school definitely, you know, started to thrive, I mean,   when Ms. Linder got into the principal`s office, definitely. MILLS:  Ms. Linder is like my second mother. ALIYAH BASKERVILLE, STUEDENT:  And thank you to Ms. Linder that she made that she`s the main one who made this school and who made us feel powerful   and brave. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right. All of you powerful and brave people, your 10 out of 10 story today is about two friends from France who went to the World Cup in   Qatar. Why? Because they traveled roughly 4,300 miles by bike. We`re talking 13 countries, flooded woodlands in Hungary, a scorching desert in Saudi   Arabia, dozens of flat tires. Their goal was to see their beloved team France, the defending World Cup champs. They told us, we`re the kind of people that have big ideas and we don`t want to have any regrets. Let`s meet them. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MEHDI BALAMISSA, TEAM FRANCE FAN:  This crazy idea of going to Qatar from Paris by bicycle to attend the World Cup. GABRIEL MARTIN, TEAM FRANCE FAN:  It was under 7,000 kilometers, three months, 13 countries. We went from Paris to Istanbul. Istanbul, we went   south was Jerusalem. Third of our adventure, weather in Saudi Arabia. BALAMISSA:  And we actually went through all kinds of landscapes, from Europe to the mountains of Turkey, and in the desert in the Israel, Jordan,   Saudi Arabia. First stages in the desert were especially very hard because it`s a very -- like it`s such a hostile environment. And compared to what   we experienced in Europe for example, there is just nothing around here. MARTIN:  We had a lot of surprises, but I think the most important but how hospitality is a world, a universal world. You know, in each country, we   are received by people, giving us some food, even giving us some water, sometimes welcoming us at home. Arriving in Doha was incredible. There were so many people welcoming us especially from the French community based in Doha. We had the French   national team here. They made the surprise to work on us, to take picture with us, and to offer the French national jersey with all the players   signatures. BALAMSSIA:  So, we will fly back to Paris, but this doesn`t mean bike trips are over the lifestyle that we actually loved, and I`m sure that we will   want to go back on other adventures. We were actually very happy to document our trip and share with our followers on social media. And so, we also realized that this was a way of telling people that, look, you can take your bike and live adventures. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, lovely people. We made it. There ain`t no mentum like momentum. So, let`s finish this week strong and power right along into the   weekend. First, though, a shout out to Lakeview Junior and Senior High School in Campti, Louisiana. Remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy. This is CNN, and it`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2022-12-05
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, everyone. It`s your boy Coy here, starting with some Monday motivation for you and me.  I challenge you to say the alphabet backwards -- Z, Y, X, W, V, U, T, S, R, Q, P, O, N, M, L, K, J, I, H, G, F, E, D, C, G, A. Like that. And I want   you to challenge me to work a unique word of your choice into tomorrow`s show. Follow me @CoyWire on Insta, Snapchat and TikTok and put your   challenge words in a comment, and I`ll choose one fun one to work in tomorrow`s show. All right. It`s time for the best 10 minutes in news for you. CNN starts right now. We`re going to start with the news out of Hawaii. On Sunday, huge amounts of lava continue to flow from the Mauna Loa volcano, the world`s largest   active volcano, which has been erupting for over a week now. It turns out the lava is creeping closer to a key highway that connects the east and   west sides of the big islands of Hawaii. As of Saturday morning, the lava was just two and a half miles from the DKI highway. It had been moving   around feet per hour over the last hours.  For now, the highway remains open and it`s even attracted sightseers who have flocked the area to see the historic lava show. The volcano is   erupting for the first time in almost four decades. The flow of lava is unpredictable. Its direction is expected to change hour to hour and day to   day, making it difficult to estimate when or even if the lava flow will impact the highway.  In the meantime, Hawaiian officials say they have a plan to shut the highway down if the lava gets close enough to become dangerous. Now, while it may seem scary and potentially destructive, some people see it as beautiful. After all, the islands were formed as a result of volcanic   eruptions. So without lava flow, there would be no Hawaii at all. CNN`s David Culver is on the scene with the latest.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DAVID CULVER, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  The nighttime glow of Mauna Loa`s oozing lava -- well, you just have to pull over and properly admire   it.  It`s basically the middle the night and you guys are out here, why?  PIILANI ZYCH, OAHU, HAWAII RESIDENT:  Well, this is a once in a lifetime opportunity to be able to experience this. And we decided to come early in   the morning so we didn`t have to sit in traffic.  CULVER:  Having hopped from Oahu to here, the big island, this family, three generations, came to respectfully honor the Hawaiian eruptions.  ZYCH:  It`s all beautiful to us. So, we pay huge reverence to this. It`s very culturally significant for us as well. So, it`s a big deal.  CULVER:  A site made even more luring with the side of sunrise, which brought the crowds to old saddle road. Officials turning this stretch into   a one-way street, allowing passersby the chance to stop and let the views seep in.  And that keeps drivers from pulling over and stopping on this, what is one of the main highways connecting one part of the island to the other. USGS   and state officials warned, the lava flow, while slowed in recent days, is inching closer to cutting off this highway. It is within three miles now.  The other worry, not here on the ground but up in the air. What looks like plumes of smoke, experts say those are acid gases. Officials monitoring the   levels, warning it could become tax toxic for residents and visitors of the big island.  Mauna Loa is the second of the big islands five volcanoes currently erupting. Kilauea is still rumbling after destroying more than 600 homes   here in 2018.  But many Hawaiians see the potential path of destruction as simultaneous creation, surfacing from this, the world`s largest active volcano.  And with the eruption continuing at its current pacing, officials feel like they should be able to give folks up to two days notice should the lava   make its way onto that major thoroughfare cutting off that highway. But they also warn when it comes to the flow of lava, there is no forecasting. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Who conducted the first spacewalk, which took place in 1965? Alan Shepard, Yuri Gagarin, Ed White, or Alexei Leonov? While Ed White was the first American to space walk, the first to ever do it was Soviet cosmonaut Alexei Leonov. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  On Saturday, the International Space Station got powered up. NASA astronauts Josh Casada and Frank Rubio got suited up and floated outside   the station to install a solar array or panel on the outside of the space lab. Their mission lasted seven hours. There were two solar arrays   installed back in June of 2021, but now, the plan is to add a total of six more to hopefully boost the space station`s power generation by more than   30 percent. The original solar arrays were only designed to last 15 years, but they`ve been supplying power for more than 20 years. They still work but they`re   definitely showing some signs of wear and tear after that long-term exposure to the environment.  When it comes to office views though, this one might be the best one in the world or the best out of this world. (MUSIC) WIRE:  For today`s 10 out of 10, a fresh look at a game of golf on the moon. Astronaut Alan Shepard will forever be remembered for becoming the   first American in space in 1961. Putt in 1971, as commander of the Apollo 14 moon mission, he left viewers and even folks back at mission control   stunned when he pulled out a club and ball to take a celestial swing on a fairway 230 miles away.  His moon game is now being seen in a whole new light after a NASA specialist dedicated over 10,000 hours to restoring flight film of the   Apollo missions. Now here`s teeing up for us right now. Roll it. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SUBTITLE:  Over 50 years ago, Alan B. Shepard Jr. played a game of golf that was "out of this world".  Almost 240,000 miles away from Earth, Shepard hit two golf balls on the surface of the moon. Despite being so far away, he found a way to connect with the people back home. BRIAN ODOM, CHIEF HISTORIAN AT NASA:  I think it resonates with people because it`s just a very human activity, a very, you know, a cultural thing   that`s taking place on the moon. So I think that`s why it really resonates with folks. You can talk seismometers and all of this stuff all day long really of what they`re doing on the moon, but you talk hitting a golf ball in the moon and   people like, oh, yeah, right. Shepard obviously was the first American in space and he`d been grounded for a long time. So, you know, he thought he may never get to go back into   space. So when he finally gets this, you know, his health works out and he gets this opportunity to go back, you can kind of see him thinking what`s   something fun and cool I can do to put my own stamp on this program. And, you know, sneaking things onto the capsule and hitting a golf ball, that   seems to be pretty well in line with the Shepard we know. SUBTITLE:  Former property developer Andy Saunders found a new calling in enhancing poor quality NASA archive footage.  It was the lack of high-quality pictures of Neil Armstrong on the moon that started him on this path.  ANDY SAUNDERS, NASA DIGITAL RESTORATION EXPERT:  I wanted to see Neil Armstrong in the moon, he first person on another world, this monumental   moment in history. Since childhood, I was obsessed with anything that could fly really from boomerangs and paper airplanes. Rockets were the ultimate,   and it was also that added fascination with the moon. At one stage, I was kind of a semi-professional photographer, probably is about as serious as I   got. And it`s kind of uniting those two things, those two interests that led me to take on this, this particular project. SUBTITLE:  Like Armstrong, there was limited coverage of Shepard`s feat, and it was Saunders` job to change that.  SAUNDERS:  They had TV footage of him swinging the club, live TV footage that was being back very, very, very low quality. But you couldn`t see them   and the ball disappeared off screen.  In the low res images, everything just looks like small rocks. But in a higher resolution scan, I could zoom right in, enhance it and find   something which looked very much like a ball. SUBTITLE:  In February 2021, Saunders found the second golf ball and was able to accurately measure the distance traveled: 40 yards.  SAUNDERS:  When he said, oh, it`s gone miles and miles and miles, I think he knew deep down that they didn`t quite go that far. So 40 hours, that`s   terrible, but you know, they have these visors, they built your spacesuit. They could barely even see their feet. So visibility wasn`t very good   because of the restrictive suit, he had to hit it one-handed.  So to even make contact I think was pretty, pretty impressive. SUBTITLE:  Why do Shepard`s actions resonate so much? ODOM:  It`s the human side of this. It`s, you know, that`s the thing we can`t forget. When it comes to a human activity, something that`s done just   for the joy of being alive, that`s something that people can appreciate. SAUNDERS:  You know, a lot of people know that someone play golf on the moon but not a lot of those people would know that it was on Apollo 14.   That there was even wasn`t Apollo 14.   So, you know, those human moments resonate forever, and that -- and that`s one of the few. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  That`s all we have time for, for now. We hope that that story helped to capture your i-moon-gination in this marvelous Monday.  Our shout-out today goes to a school of innovation. The Franklin School of Innovation in Asheville, North Carolina.  Our goal is to shout out all of your schools lunar than later. We hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one. I`m Coy Wire   and this is CNN 10.   END     

Date: 2022-12-06
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, everyone. Terrific Tuesday to you. As the ancient philosopher Confucius once said, we have two lives and the second begins when we realize we only have one. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN   10. With just 86,400 seconds in this day, let`s get going and let`s make the most of them. We`re going to begin with the latest out of Indonesia where Mount Semeru, a very active volcano, erupted on Sunday, blanketing roads and homes in   volcanic ash and promoting evacuations of nearly 2,000 residents in the East Java province. The volcano spewed thick columns of ash, nearly 5,000   feet into the sky and as far as 7.4 miles away. Villages and nearby towns blanketed with falling ash, blocking out the sun but thankfully no   casualties have been reported. On Monday, improved weather conditions allowed rescuers to resume evacuation efforts in a search for possible victims. The area of eruption   is the most densely populated island in Indonesia, nearly 2,000 people escaped to emergency shelters at several schools. Indonesia`s officials   warned residents to stay at least miles away from the volcano`s eruption center. But many felt they had to return to their homes Monday to protect   their property. The eruption in East Java on Sunday following a series of earthquakes on the west of the island, including one last month that killed more than 300   people, and many residents are still traumatized after more than 50 people were killed, and thousands more displaced when the same volcano erupted   just last year. We`ll continue to follow this story as well as the Mauna Loa volcano eruption in Hawaii. Let`s hear more now from my friend, CNN meteorologist Allison Chinchar. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST (voice-over):  Ash fills the skies in Indonesia, forming a thick caustic cloud over Mount Semeru on the island of   Java. Video from the country`s ministry of environment and forestry captured the explosive eruption on Saturday a burst of ash shooting 15 kilometers into   the sky, a sign for people living in the volcano`s shadow it`s time to go. This man, escaping on a motorbike, the ash caking on his face. He says he doesn`t know where he`s going just somewhere out of the volcano`s reach. Authorities say nearly 2,000 people have been evacuated from the slopes of the volcano which is located about kilometers southeast of Jakarta. The roads in the area are packed with vehicles rushing to outrun the volcanic ash that is still raining down. Emergency workers are directing people out of the danger zone, handing out masks and urging them to go to shelters. INDAH AMPERAWATI MASDAR, LUMAJANG DISTRICT DEPUTY CHIEF (through translator):  We have readied some nearby schools and village halls. We   will prepare them until the observatory post declares it`s safe. CHINCHAR:  The damage has already been done to some areas. Rooftops are singed and the ground is covered with smoldering soot. Authorities are telling people to stay at least eight kilometers away from the eruption center, but there are fears the hot ash could drift further.   So far, many people are heeding the warnings, a lesson learned last year when more than people were killed in a previous eruption and thousands were   forced from their homes. (END VIDEO CLIP) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which U.S. state nickname was inspired by the sticky sap of its pine trees? California, Montana, North Carolina, or Alaska? With vast pine tree forests, North Carolina is nicknamed the Tar Heel State. Power outages in North Carolina are causing so much concern that the FBI is investigating. Officials believe intentional attacks on substations are   causing power outages in Moore County near Fayetteville. But at this time, they haven`t named any suspects or even motives. Forty thousand customers   were in the dark as of Sunday. The investigation turned into a criminal investigation when utility crews found signs of potential vandalism to   equipment at several different sites, including two substations that were damaged by gunfire. We`re talking millions of dollars in estimated damage. In order to protect residents, property, businesses and public services, the authorities announced a mandatory curfew from 9:00 p.m. until 5:00 a.m.   in the county. The curfew which started Sunday will continue nightly until there`s an emergency declaration. This outage is impacting the community in all sorts of ways as you can imagine. All schools in the county were closed on Monday. There was no   church on Sunday. Traffic lights are out. Many businesses are closed, with a few stores using generators to open their doors. Authorities opened a shelter which is running on a generator. According to local officials, the damage is significant and rerouting power just isn`t   an option. As of Monday, an FBI manhunt was underway. But whoever is responsible remains a mystery to the community. We`ll keep you updated in   the coming days right here on CNN 10. Next up, CNN business producer Jon Sarlin is introducing us to BlocPower, one of a handful of companies looking to make clean energy affordable for   everyone. The Brooklyn, New York-based business wants to help companies prioritize helping the climate, while also lowering utility bills and   saving money. The company also targets dense and low-income neighborhoods where significant cost savings can help the most. They`ve reached nearly   1,200 buildings in New York so far. Let`s learn more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JON SARLIN, CNN BUSINESS PRODUCER:  From eating locally to buying an electric car, being eco-friendly can be expensive especially when it comes   to making our homes greener. In 2020, residential and commercial buildings accounted for 30 percent of greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. But the cost of buying and installing   green technology can cost tens of thousands of dollars. DONNEL BAIRD, CEO, BLOCPOWER:  Greening buildings can be really difficult, complicated and hard and a little scary and expensive. SARLIN:  But what if it wasn`t expensive, and you could make your building green without paying any upfront costs. A company called BlocPower is one of a handful of companies trying to make that possible. BAIRD:  Our job is, okay, how do we make clean energy affordable for everyone? A lot of building owners and property managers might not care   about climate change as their top priority, but they definitely care about reducing their costs because that`s money that can go in their pocket. SARLIN:  BlocPower leases and installs equipment like solar panels and heat pumps, energy efficient devices that both heat and cool buildings and use   about 50 percent less energy than furnaces or baseboard heaters, all of which means lower bills. According to BlocPower, installing a heat pump can lower utility bills between 20 and 70 percent a year, the company is able to make back its   money over time by taking a portion of the building`s savings. LINCOLN ECCLES, BUILDING OWNER:  It looks very clean and very sleek. I like I like how you guys did this. This system it`s quiet, it`s clean. I`ve literally had tenants come up to me and tell me that they see a real savings in their actual electricity   use. NOAH, BROOKLYN RESIDENT:  Right, so that we had a radiator system, the radiator was either just hot, extremely hot or non-existent, so my bill has   significantly been a lot cheaper. SARLIN:  Greening buildings has become more competitive with companies like Sealed also offering retrofits with no upfront costs. BlocPower says it   prioritizes greening dense, low and moderate-income neighborhoods where buildings are often outdated, and cost savings are needed most. BAIRD:  I grew up in a low-income apartment building. All the buildings were overheated. The tenants had opened up all the windows and we`re   burning energy that was like floating out of the window. And so, I was like man, there`s a massive problem here. SARLIN:  Since 2004, Brooklyn-based BlocPower has upgraded over 1,200 buildings in New York, and they`re partnering with cities around the   country to help them hit carbon goals. With investment from the Bezos Earth Fund, they`re currently building proprietary software that they say will   help them identify greening opportunities for millions of buildings. BAIRD:  The most rewarding part of working at BlocPower for me is I`ll be able to look my kids in the eye and say I did everything I could to prevent   the climate disaster. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s 10 out of 10, an Illinois 8th grade hooper hitting legendary status with an epic buzzer beater. Milton Pope down just one with just   seconds to go and the opponent misses a free throw, but Cooper Thorson snags the rebound dribbles around, he heaves it, and you better believe it. Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious. Cooper hitting the nearly full court shot but dropping it like it`s hot. The whole moment was caught on camera,   creating the perfect viral moment. CNN highlight reel. Take that chef Steph Curry, this is Cooper`s kitchen. And that kid is eaten. And now on to our favorite part of the day, I want to give a special shout out to Foxboro High School in Foxboro, Massachusetts. We hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one, going out and make someone smile today. Remember that kindness is not what   you do, but who you are. I`m Coy Wire and this is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-12-07
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. I`m Coy Wire, ready to make this a wonderful Wednesday with you. But before, I start I must say I am bumfuzzled by the amount of creativity and passion with which you accepted my challenge to pick a word for me to   work into yesterday`s show. It was supercalifragilisticexpialidocious, if you didn`t notice. And don`t worry, I`ll challenge you to another one next   week. We start today with the latest on the economy. If you`ve watched the news in the last few months, it`s likely you`ve seen concerns from consumers and   experts about the economy or headlines featuring layoffs especially in the tech industry. However, this month, the economy showed a continued demand   for workers, and new jobs were added to the market. This is despite the Federal Reserve`s push to curb inflation which was predicted to impact the   economy and the job market. Let`s break it down by the numbers. Employers added 263,000 jobs this month. That`s only a slight drop from 284,000 added in October and the   unemployment rate was unchanged this month at 3.7 percent. We`ll bring you now to Christine Romans, CNN chief business correspondent and anchor of "EARLY START" who will tell us more about the state of the   economy and consumer concerns. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  Behind all those headlines of tech layoffs, sour consumer confidence, inflation anxiety,   it`s an economy showing resilience. Surprising strength in the economy in the third quarter, 2.9 percent annual growth from July through September, a   sharp bounce back from a contraction in the first half of the year -- you know, it`s a pace that would have been considered very strong before the   pandemic.  The job market remains strong, too. Another 263,000 jobs added in November. It`s the fewest in months but it`s more than economist forecast.  This year, a stunning 4.2 million jobs added. Stripping out the pandemic, it`s the most jobs added in years. And inflation, while still too hot, is   showing signs of cooling.  The fed`s favorite inflation gauge, the PCE price index showing signs of peaking, and gas prices are falling. They`re below where they were when   Russia invaded Ukraine.  Call it the yes-but economy. Yes, consumers feel like the economy is bad, but they keep spending. After all, it was a record Thanksgiving shopping   season. So, why the foul mood and the sometimes conflicting headlines?  Well, COVID broke the economy and putting it back together has been hard to measure. Remember tens of millions of jobs were lost overnight, schools   closed, factories shuttered, more than a million lives lost. More than two years later, we`re still struggling to gauge the strength and durability of   the recovery. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia, which of these animals is part of the Canidae family? Grizzly bear, golden retriever, gopher, or goldfish? Often referred to as canines, dogs, including golden retrievers, are part of the Canidae family. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Up next, we`re introducing you to a very special organization called Canine Companions. They`re the oldest and largest organization in the U.S.   that provides service dogs. They provide service dogs for children and adults with a wide range of needs, including both physical and emotional   support. These pups are uplifting and they`re pretty doggone cute, too. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MELINDA SOWERS, VP, CANINE TRAINING AND CLIENT SERVICES, CANINE COMPANIES:  We`re in Orlando, Florida. We are at the southeast region campus of Canine   Companions. We are the largest and oldest organization that provides service dogs for children, adults and veterans with disabilities. And we   work really hard to transform lives. At Canine Companions, we offer several different types of dogs. One of the types of dogs that we offer is a service dog. The service dog works with   someone to mitigate their disability. They can pick up items, open and close doors, drawers, refrigerators. The dogs can know over 40 commands. We want the dogs to love the work they do. SUBTITLE:  Canine Companions places dogs who can help with more disabilities, PTSD, emotional support and physical therapy. SOWERS:  Since 1975, we`ve placed over dogs. We currently have over 2,600 graduates that are out there working with service dogs to our organization,   and over 1,400 puppy raisers who are raising puppies for us. SUBTITLE: Dogs are trained from puppyhood for over two years before being placed with people in need. The service animals are matched with their new recipients during a process called "team training".  SOWERS:  Team training is just a magical time.  It`s for so many of them, the moment that they have been waiting for.  IZZY & ALANA SHERMAN, CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA:  So, we applied I want to say a year and a half ago. We just knew that this was the right thing   because as he`s been in and out of hospitals because of brain cancer, and all the facilities we`ve been in have therapy dogs and they just bring so   much joy to the kids. The ability to give her not only a companion but a skilled companion that can help with some of the challenges that we face   daily. SUBTITLE:  Canine Companions breeds Labrador and golden retrievers for their temperament and work ethic.  SOWERS:  We provide all of our dogs free of charge just thanks to amazing donations.  SHERMAN:  I mean our medical bills are quite high. So it`s really a gift to our family. SOWERS:  We want to make sure that anybody who needs a service dog or a facility dog is able to get one. SUBTITLE:  To increase their supply of service dogs, Canine Companions partners with Duke University`s "Puppy Kindergarten," a program designed to   identify strong service dog candidates.  Aurora attended Duke Puppy Kindergarten before finishing her training at Canine Companions.  SOWERS:  And then at the end of that team training class, they`ll have a graduation ceremony where they will graduate and go home. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Today is Canine Companions national graduation day. Instead of a diploma, our graduates today will be handed a leash. SHERMAN:  You know, it isn`t the unknown. And the unknown brings questions. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Congratulations. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And for today`s 10 out of 10, we`re going to meet a voice that might be familiar to you if you`ve ever been on TikTok. I was pretty blown away   actually when I found out this voice was actually a person and not a computer.  Let`s meet Kat Callaghan, the real life woman behind TikTok`s text to speech feature and one of the most popular influencers online. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KAT CALLAGHAN, VOICE OVER ARTIST:  Songs that made artists famous.  If you have an air fryer, you need to try this. Would you sit in this seat? My name is Kat. I work with TikTok on TTS and other projects. You`re probably sick of my voice. I am sick of my voice. SUBTITLE:  Kat Callaghan, the voice behind TikTok`s "Jessie" text-to-speech feature, recently revealed herself on her TikTok account. CALLAGHAN:  I understand people are a little bit freaked out that have never heard my voice before in association with a human being. I`ve had   interviews for the last several weeks with people going, okay, I can`t -- I can`t look at you, because I think you should say, I can`t look at you when   you`re talking. And you don`t hear it in my regular voice all the time but once I hit that upper inflection, you know you can hear it. SUBTITLE:  Callaghan, a radio host in Canada, is still getting used to the fact that her voice is TikTok famous.  CALLAGHAN:  People are recognizing me as the voice of TikTok, and also as a radio person. I was walking down the street and a car stopped and said,   "Voice of Kat", which is my which is my TikTok handle is "Voice of Kat". And I`m just like, oh, yes, hello. SUBTITLE:  However, reactions from the revelation haven`t been entirely positive, with users mocking Jessie`s text-to-speech feature limitations.  CALLAGHAN:  The way I say law. Definitely not a perfect technology. I`d like to have fun with the fact though that Jesse mispronounces words.  Why do you say emoji like emoji? It`s one of the funniest things to be honest with you is people commenting, say this, say that, or why do you pronounce it this way? So I plan to just   continue to have a little bit of fun with that. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right. We are so grateful to spend part of our day with you. To get your shout out, remember to subscribe to our YouTube Channel CNN 10,   and leave a comment with your school, name, city, state and mascot, and the pronunciation if necessary. Chandler Academy in Charleston, West Virginia, thank you for showing the love. We`re showing it right back at you. We hope you and everyone watching   around the world have a wonderful one. I`m Coy Wire and this is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-12-08
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. It`s Thursday. So happy Friday eve. It`s your boy Coy, Mr. Clean, but I keep it cleaner. Let`s keep crushing it this week each day aiming to be a little better than the day before. This is CNN and it`s time to fuel our minds. We start with an update. China is scrapping some of its most controversial COVID rules, moving away from their strict zero COVID policy which have   caused people mental and emotional stress and strain. Earlier this month, protesters took to the streets in a rare display of defiance against the country`s ruling communist party. The people are   reeling from the effects of the government placing millions of people under lockdown and limiting access to loved ones, food and even medicine. All   this on top of the economic strain it`s caused. China`s zero COVID policy has kept the nation`s infection rate lower than countries like the United States by isolating every case of COVID and   shutting down the surrounding areas. But easing restrictions now marks a significant step in the government`s plans to reopen the country. This week, the Chinese government announced 10 new guidelines that loosened restrictions, most notably allowing people with COVID to quarantine at home   instead of being taken to an isolation facility, a practice which previously frightened its citizens. The government is also dropping   mandates that required proof of a negative COVID test to enter public places. These are some of the significant steps which should offer relief   to China`s residents after nearly three years of disruption to their daily lives and economic futures. But there`s still concern. Twenty-five million people in China have not received a coronavirus vaccine. If there`s an influx of new cases, it could   overwhelm the hospital system, leading to a potentially tragic situation for citizens. Our Selina Wang has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SELINA WANG, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  This is the kind of line Beijingers stand in, outside in the cold to get their COVID tests. A 48-  hour test is required to get into most places. But there aren`t many places to go. Much of Beijing is still closed down. This is one of the most popular tourist places in the city. But the   restaurants are largely closed, and the malls are pretty empty. So, this McDonald`s is still open but for takeaway only. But even to get takeaway, you`ve got to prove that you`re clear of COVID. Here`s how I do it. I open up the health app on my smartphone, I scan the QR code. So, it says, I`ve got a green code, and I`ve got a recent COVID test, so I`m good to go. This code dictates all of our daily lives in China. Green means good to go. Red means I may have to isolate at home or go to a mass quarantine   facility. This allows China to track the movements of virtually all 1.4 billion people in the name of contact tracing. I`ve got to scan my code to get into a taxi, a public park, a mall, or a coffee shop. Even a public bathroom. (voice-over):  I ran into a group of delivery people on the street. They`ve got to do COVID tests every single day to do their jobs. This woman tells me the pandemic has been hard on her. I ask her why. She says it`s because she`s scared of the virus. Getting COVID in China is unlike anywhere else in the world. You and your close contacts all get sent to a quarantine center. This is a convention   center in Beijing that`s been turned into a massive quarantine facility with thousands of beds. But some of these facilities in the country, they are in very run-down and unsanitary condition. And then your whole building or community could go   into lockdown. I spoke to a man who`s been in and out of quarantine six times already just this year. He tells me his whole building of more than 200 families went to   a quarantine facility last month, because they were considered close contacts. He says he`s not scared to get COVID because omicron is less   severe and his whole family has been vaccinated. I approached a few people just released from this mass quarantine center here. I ask if they had tested positive for COVID. Yes, the man nods and   says they have recovered. "How many days did you spend in there?" I asked. "Seven days," he said. Unprecedented protests recently erupted across China. They are chanting that they don`t want COVID tests, they want freedom. Authorities swiftly cracked down on the protesters. But they are finally softening their stance on zero COVID. Some cities are lifting lockdowns,   changing COVID testing requirements. Under some conditions, people can now quarantine at home if they have COVID, which is a huge deal. But this country has already built up a whole infrastructure around zero COVID, spending all of its resources on quarantine facilities and COVID   testing. So it`s going to be a long and slow exit from zero COVID. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: In the animal kingdom, oysters are classified under what phylum? Mollusca, arthropoda, chordata or porifera? Oysters are soft-bodied invertebrates belonging to the phylum mollusca. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Did you know that scientists estimate that oysters have been around for 15 million years and they`re far more valuable than the beautiful   pearls that they can produce. The reefs that take shape as they grow together create a shelter where hundreds of other species can flourish.   They`re also crucial for ocean health, filtering the water around them. One oyster can filter gallons of water per day. Let`s hear now from conservationists who are hoping to be successful in restoring Hong Kong`s famous oyster reefs in CNN`s Call to Earth. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Tucked away in the northwest corner of Hong Kong with the high-tech Chinese mega city of   Shenzhen in sight is a rich habitat that is home to mangroves, soft, muddy shores and oyster reefs that date back centuries. For over 700 years local farmers cultivated oysters here in the mud flats of Pak Nai and recent decades, traditional oyster farming has declined due   in part to coastal reclamation and over harvesting. But conservationists like Marine Thomas have discovered that reintroducing oysters to the abandoned reefs can boost biodiversity and strengthen these   shores. MARINE THOMAS, SENIOR CONSERVATION PROGRAM MANAGER, THE NATURE CONSERVANCY:  Usually, people will associate oysters with food but less known is that   oysters and other shellfish create habitats. They create reef habitats. In fact, just like coral reefs, they will bunch together and create these hard   structures that you can actually walk on. STOUT:  In a survey of the city`s coastlines, researchers from the Nature Conservancy at the University of Hong Kong discovered existing reefs like   these old farms could potentially act as a source of oyster larvae. They also found that a single Hong Kong oyster can filter up to 30 liters or 8   gallons of water an hour, one of the highest filtration rates recorded for the species. Another finding, the reefs host six times more species and bare mud flats as the piles of shells provide shelter for worms and small crabs,   attracting a variety of animals including birds like this little egret. And yet another benefit is mitigating the effects of climate change, so how does the humble oyster do that? THOMAS:  So the humble oyster will also help us fight climate change if it`s in a reef structure so if it`s in a hard reef structure that is   creating a barrier, think of it as a natural sea wall then it`s going to be creating friction on the sea bottom that will attenuate wave action and   therefore also flooding at the back of it. STOUT:  Since 2020, Thomas and a team of volunteers have been at work restoring this abandoned oyster farm. They dry old shells in the sun before   returning them to the water to form a base for oyster larva to attach to. They hope to introduce millions of oysters to help revitalize the area over   the next few years. ASHLEY HEMRAJ, MARINE BIOLOGIST, THE SWIRE INSTITUTE OF MARINE SCIENCE, THE UNIVERSITY OF HONG KONG:  One of the biggest things that always amazes me   and makes me happy is seeing all the number of crabs here, especially here as you walk, the crab walks away. It`s -- if you fix on it, it`s quite   amazing to see this. It is really, really beautiful. STOUT:  As new oysters grow, they clean the water, provide shelter and food for wildlife and join forces with the mangroves as a coastal buffer. A spectacular sunset descends on Pak Nai as these small briny creatures work to build an ever more vibrant ecosystem. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And for today`s 10 out of 10, if you`re a jogger and you`re claustrophobic, this race is not for you. Hundreds of jolly old joggers in   a Santa run in Michendorf, Germany, jingling all the way, dressed in red from head to mistletoe, look at all those Santas go. Talk about spreading Christmas cheer, this is the 14th annual race. One Santa said that even if you finish last, it`s being there that counts. They   ran in near freezing temperatures, maybe getting fit to deliver those gifts, Santa even without his sleigh still slays. It`s slay-NN 10, the most wonderful time of the year and the most wonderful part of this show: you. Special shout out to all the teachers today. Keep up lifting, informing and inspiring students. Going up and dap your teacher up give them a handshake   or a high five. Let them know that you appreciate them. Also getting a shout out, Holdrege Middle School in Holdrege, Nebraska. Keep shining. I`m Coy Wire. I`m headed to Philadelphia, the City of Brotherly Love. So I`ll see you from there tomorrow. END     

Date: 2022-12-09
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people, and welcome to the city of Brotherly Love, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, my home state. I`m standing in front of the Philadelphia Museum of Art, and you may recognize those steps, the iconic rocky steps. We`re here for one of the   greatest rivalries in all of sports. Tomorrow at 3:00 p.m. Eastern, it`s the 123rd edition of the Army-Navy football game and it`s so much more than   a game. Dating back to 1890, the traditions, pageantry, passion and respect make the Army-Navy game the greatest rivalry in American sports. The game is so   big, 10 sitting U.S. presidents have attended, from Theodore Roosevelt in 1901, to Donald Trump two years ago. It is humbling to watch this rivalry. It`s said that this is a game where everyone playing is willing to die for everyone watching. That`s powerful stuff. This is America`s game. If only all of us could have the perspective of these individuals representing the Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland, and the U.S.   Military Academy in West Point, New York. They stand their ground against the opposing side, but afterwards, they walk across the field and embrace   each other as brothers and sisters because they never forget that in the end, they`re all on the same team. But don`t get me wrong they play hard for bragging rights that`ll last a lifetime. Navy leads the series 62-53-7 all time and to paraphrase the 34th   president of the United States Dwight Eisenhower, the Army and Navy are the best of friends 364-1/2 days out of the year. But on this one Saturday   afternoon, they are the worst of enemies. The rivalry is also loaded with traditions, like when Army West Point`s marathon team runs the ball about 150 miles through the night and through   the elements, from West Point to Philly. There`s also a flyover before the game during the national anthem, and there isn`t a dry eye in the stadium.   Later on in the show, I`ll tell you about some of the fun pranks associated with the rivalry. But first let`s take a look at some of the headlines of today. WNBA star Brittney Griner was released from a Russian prison yesterday. In February, she was arrested on drug smuggling charges when traveling through   the Moscow airport. In August, she was sentenced to nine years in a Russian prison. Griner`s release on Thursday was part of a prisoner swap between   Russia and the United States. A convicted Russian arms dealer Victor Bout was released from a U.S. prison. He was previously sentenced to 25 years on charges of conspiring to   kill Americans and providing weapons to terrorist organizations. The swap did not include another American that the state department has declared   wrongfully detained, Paul Whalen. Here`s what President Biden had to say. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  We never forgot about Brittney. We`ve not forgotten about Paul Whelan who`s been unjustly detained in   Russia for years. This was not a choice of which American to bring home. We brought home Trevor Reed when we had a chance early this year. Sadly, for totally illegitimate reasons, Russia is treating Paul`s case   differently than Brittney`s. And while we have not yet succeeded in securing Paul`s release, we are not giving up. We will never give up. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Next up, scientists say they have now confirmed why we get more colds in the wintertime, and they say it`s a major breakthrough. According   to a recent study, it turns out that the cold air damages the immune response occurring in our noses. When we`re exposed to cold air the   temperature in our nose can drop by as much as 9 degrees Fahrenheit and that kills nearly percent of the billions of virus and bacteria fighting   cells in our nostrils. It`s enough to essentially knock out all of the immune advantages that our nose has to offer. More research is needed to   understand how this research could be used to prevent illness in the future. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which of these prehistoric animals was a marine reptile? Allosaurus, Plesiosaur, Diplodocus or ankylosaurus? While the others on this list were all land dinosaurs, the plesiosaur was a marine reptile and an intact skeleton of one was just discovered in   Australia. (END VIDEO CLIP) (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SUBTITLE:  This 100-million-year-old intact plesiosaur skeleton was discovered in Queensland, Australia. Amateur paleontologists known as the "Rock Chicks" uncovered the remains of the 19-foot-tall reptile in August. Researchers say the finding may provide vital clues about prehistoric life. DR. ESPEN KNUTSEN, SENIOR CURATOR OF PALEONTOLOGY, QUEENSLAND MUSEUM:  So, usually, what we find is that when we`re digging these things out of the   ground is that we`ll find bits of the body, no head, and very, very rarely, we`ll find just ahead, but unfortunately with no body attached. So the fact   that this guy had both allows us to close that gap where they have this overlap between the body and the head that will unravel a lot of the   species diversity, of how many species of these long neck pieces also swimming around here in this outback ocean 100 million years ago. SUBTITLE:  Plesiosaurs are not classified as dinosaurs as they did not have gills and had to surface to breathe. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Okay. Now to those pranks I was telling you about. As I mentioned at the top of the show, there`s so much tradition associated with the Army-  Navy game but some of it is all in good fun. Exhibit A, this year, Navy flew over the Army`s campus and dropped a bunch of ping pong balls that said, go Navy, beat Army. But every year, the Navy has to protect their beloved mascots, their goats, because the Army tries to steal them. A while back I got to interview the   goats and their protectors. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Preparations for the Army-Navy game can be intense. You have the game plan, the playbooks and the practices. But perhaps one of the most   important facets of pre-game preparations here in Annapolis has nothing to do with the players, but rather mascots, goats, and more specifically   protecting the goats. Can you tell us where you keep the goats? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I can`t tell you that.. WIRE:  We won`t tell anyone. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  No, afraid I can`t do that. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We don`t want Army to come and steal it, like we know they`re not capable of doing it, but just for a precaution measures. WIRE:  So, we`re talking maybe confidential, secret or the location of the goats. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Above top secret. So, we`re -- this is a whole separate classification. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  They`re kept at a pretty secure location though. They have a guard dog. WIRE:  So, there is a guard dog? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  There is, and he is massive and scary. WIRE:  You think if I ask a goat, maybe they would tell me where they`re kept. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You could definitely try but they`ve been briefed heavily, and let`s just say they probably won`t give you anything either. WIRE:  Can you tell us where your hideout is? Are you aware of the Army`s hype video that they released? It alludes to an elaborate plot to steal the   goats this year. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Confirm the role of Billy the Goat is the head of Navy spirit group. WIRE:  Does it make you nervous? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It does not. I`ve seen our security measures and especially the dog once again is I don`t think anyone could get past him. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We feel the goods are pretty secure, and not many people know their location, and even if they did, they`d have a hard time   stealing them. UNIDENTIFIED MALES:  Fear the goats, beat the Army. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right. For today`s 10 out of 10, the Oxford Dictionary just announced their word of the year. Drum roll, please. It`s -- wait, what?   The word is goblin mode, technically two words. It`s a slang term that became popular during the pandemic, and it means someone that is unapologetically self-indulgent and loves being lazy. This   way of life rejects all social expectations. Yeah. I know, we`re not talking about anyone in this group, right? Yeah, sure. All right. We are going to switch from goblin mode to beast mode. All right, being that we`re at one of the most popular tourist destinations in   all of Philadelphia, the Philadelphia Museum of Art, you know I had to take you on a run with me up the iconic Rocky steps from the 1976 film "Rocky". Thousands of people flock to these steps every year to mimic one of the most famous movie scenes in the world. Rocky Balboa finishing a morning run   at the top of these steps, a symbol for all the underdogs out there. Now, we`re going to give a special shout out to New Hope Middle School in Columbus, Mississippi. Rise up. And for all of you underdogs out there, keep working everyone every single day. Keep believing in yourself, so that you can make your dreams come   true, too. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. Yo, Adrian! END     

Date: 2022-12-12
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone.  I`m Coy Wire, and welcome to a special edition of CNN 10.   You likely don`t know this but the program you`re watching right now started all the way back in 1989 when CNN launched a news program designed   for the classroom. And today, we`re going to look back at one of the most influential stories from that year. It involves protests in China`s   Tiananmen square that changed the course of history. Tiananmen Square is located in the center of the Chinese Capital of Beijing. In 1989, after several weeks of demonstrations by students and   other citizens calling for a more Democratic government, Chinese troops entered the square on June 4th and fired on civilians. It`s estimated that   several hundred to thousands were killed, and as many as 10,000 people were arrested. Accounts of the massacre are still censored in China today. We now have a special report of CNN`s coverage from on the ground that year and as you`ll see after the Chinese government pulled the plug on the   broadcast, CNN had to report by telephone and use video that was snuck out of the country. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NARRATOR:  Fifteen years ago, China was still almost totally isolated from the rest of the world. Today, the encouragement of private enterprise, free markets, foreign investment, and the introduction of western products and ideas has made   this country the pioneer in the communist world search for reform. But now, China`s reform program has run into trouble. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Inflation officially has been at the 20 percent level in recent months. Corruption has grown a great deal. NARRATOR:  These dislocations caused by an economy that is only half reformed, neither communist nor capitalist, have generated widespread   public discontent. SUBTITLE:  CNN was in Beijing as public discontent led to demonstrations and one of the darkest moments in China`s history. NARRATOR:  In the dead of night, 2,000 students marched through the streets of Beijing, calling for democracy human rights and the resignation of the   Chinese government. Their destination: Tiananmen Square in the city center. SUBTITLE:  Tiananmen Square is the government`s ceremonial center and one of the largest plazas in the world. NARRATOR:  It was here that the students placed a huge banner honoring the memory of Hu Yaobang, who died on Saturday in political disgrace purged by   communist party hardliners two and a half years ago for his liberal views. To the students however, Hu represented hope for reform and change, hopes that to many Chinese have been dashed by recent government efforts to scale   back economic and political liberalization. There has never been a challenge to the leadership of communist China like this one. In cities all across the country, crowds taking to the streets to   demand democracy and freedom. In commemorating Hu`s death by demanding the implementation of the progressive policies he advocated, the students have put the government on   the defensive, most notably by using tactics such as the peaceful sit-in that the authorities here have never seen. PROTESTERS:  Long live freedom! Long live freedom! Punish corrupt officials! Punish corrupt officials! Freedom of the speech! Freedom of the   speech! SUBTITLE:  Chinese leadership was divided on how to respond and attempted to limit the public`s awareness of the demonstrations. However, some journalists were sympathetic to the demonstrators. NARRATOR:  The students got a big boost when several official Chinese newspapers defied government orders and published accurate accounts of the   events of the past week. SUBTITLE:  As public support grew; student activists encouraged the general population to join the call for reform. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator):  If you`re going to have a student movement, you must seek support from the workers and peasants. Only   if they understand can we succeed. NARRATOR:  Again and again, the badly outnumbered police were overwhelmed and pushed aside. SUBTITLE:  On May 4th, nineteen days after the protests began, tens of thousands of demonstrators converged on Tiananmen Square. May 4th was the anniversary of the 1919 student movement that led to the communist revolution. REPORTER:  This was the demonstrator`s destination, Tiananmen Square, the heart of Beijing, the seat of the government. NARRATOR:  The scene at Tiananmen showed the depth of public discontent here now, over inflation, corruption and the lack of political freedom. SUBTITLE:  One month into the demonstrations, The students sang the Internationale, the international communist anthem. NARRATOR:  On the eve of Mikhail Gorbachev`s visit, China`s rebellious students up the stakes in their confrontation with the government, adopting   a new set of tactics to force a faster pace of reform. Two hundred students started a hunger strike, marching through Beijing to downtown Tiananmen   Square, vowing to stay without food until the authorities agreed to recognize their illegal students` federation. SUBTITLE:  China`s leaders were scheduled to meet in Beijing with Mikhail Gorbachev to mend years of strife between the communist republics. NARRATOR:  With Mikhail Gorbachev, the Soviet Union`s pioneer of political reform due here on Monday, no one in the Chinese leadership wants him to   have a reception like this. SUBTITLE:  The number of hunger strikers quickly grew. REPORTER:  This is now the third day in which about a thousand students have been carrying out a hunger strike to press their demands for   democracy. UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  Gorbachev`s reforms have been extremely successful. So we hope his visit will help accelerate political   reform in China. NARRATOR:  A growing number of those in the square are not students but journalists professional people and especially workers impatient for   change. For China`s leaders, there could not be a more embarrassing or frightening set of circumstances. BERNARD SHAW, CNN ANCHOR:  Now some thoughts, I came to cover a summit. I walked into a revolution, a massively peaceful statement by the people but   still a revolution. SUBTITLE:  By May 19, an estimated 1.2 million demonstrators had gathered in Tiananmen Square. NARRATOR:  Huge crowds again serves through the center of Beijing, people from all walks of life, workers, taxi drivers, shopkeepers, even some   peasants from the countryside while lending their support to the hunger striker`s demand for freedom and democracy. At the same time, over a hundred thousand people demonstrated in Shanghai where 300 students had begun their own hunger strike. SUBTITLE:  Government leaders visited the students to ask them to end their hunger strike. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You have every right to criticize us. I`m also not here to ask for your forgiveness this time. NARRATOR:  Communist Party Chief Zhao and Premier Li visiting Tiananmen Square to appeal for an end to the student hunger strike. Late in the evening, Premier Li appeared on nationwide television to announce that the situation was out of control and that the army was being   called in to restore orders. LI PENG, PREMIER OF THE PEOPLE`S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (through translator):  The situation in Beijing is getting worse and it is going to bring out a   nationwide riot if we don`t really do anything to crack to stop this situation. NARRATOR:  Communist Party Chief Zhao, a liberal who had sympathized with the students, being enforced to resign. REPORTER:  There is word authorities decided he had to go because he refused to agree to use force against the students. LI:  For a month, the government has taken very calm and tolerant attitude towards the students` demonstration. We did this because we love our   students. SUBTITLE:  Premier Li Peng claimed that the students were under the influence of a few troublemakers, and those on hunger strike were   `hostages". The People`s Liberation Army was ordered in to clear the square. REPORTER:  Masters of demonstrators marched out of Beijing and rode in cars to the west. Before dawn, more than one hundred thousand were on the   outskirts of the city, taking the confrontation to the troops, not waiting for the army to reach town. SHAW:  The People`s Liberation Army blocked by the people. The troops cannot move to clear Tiananmen Square. ANNOUNCER:  This is CNN`s Prime News. And in Beijing, Bernard Shaw. SHAW:  Let`s go quickly to Jeanne Moos in Tiananmen Square -- Jeanne. JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Bernie, we don`t have any real hard information down here. The same announcement keeps coming over the PA   system. It`s an official announcement signed by the premier of China, according to the announcer. And it talks about martial law being imposed   here in Tiananmen Square. It was a night of tension, a break of celebration in the morning of uncertainty. SHAW:  Jeanne, Jeanne? MOOS:  Yes, Bernie? SHAW:  I`m being told that the government officials are coming into the CNN control room now. This man with a piece of paper in his hand. I`m certain   that is not a party invitation. Okay, let me quickly tell you what this official is saying: if you do not obey the orders, you will not be allowed to come home. This official on the right side of your right side of your screen saying to CNN, if you do not obey the --   NARRATOR:  The Chinese government ordered all foreign media to stop broadcasting. (CROSSTALK) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You have him call us properly and explain to us what is happening here. If you cannot give us an explanation. UNIDENTIIFIED MALE:  Moment, please? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Fine. SHAW:  We`re told that President George Herbert Walker Bush is watching what`s happening. President Bush is saying, quote, word of the news   blackout is very disturbing. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Our government led me to tell you now stop your transmission. SHAW:  These characters being written on this legal pad in effect are saying that this government is telling CNN to end its transmission. (END VIDEOTAPE) END     

Date: 2022-12-13
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, everyone. Terrific Tuesday to you. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. We have a rendezvous with the news. I`m back from Philly, feeling refreshed, ready to crush this week with you. We start with a rocket ship returned. After a 25-1/2-day mission around the moon, NASA`s historic Artemis I mission made a successful splashdown on   Sunday. The uncrewed test flight was meant to pave the way for future missions, which could take astronauts back to the moon, The Orion   spacecraft pulled off a record-breaking mission including two lunar flybys, one with an 80-miles of the lunar surface, more than 1.4 million miles   traveled in all before splashing down in the Pacific Ocean, just west of Baja, California. After landing, the capsule spent six hours in the ocean with NASA collecting additional data and running some tests before the rescue team   moved it, a fleet of recovery vehicles were waiting nearby. The landing was key to making sure that the Orion spacecraft is ready to fly real   astronauts next time and then eventually to Mars. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PHIL BLACK, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  And here we go, the lead-up to the Artemis I launch might have been a bumpy ride after a series of delays   due to technical glitches and bad weather, but NASA says once its mega rocket got off the ground it`s being smooth sailing. MIKE SARAFIN, ARTEMIS MISSION MANAGER:  We got to witness the world`s most powerful rocket take the Earth by its edges and shake the wicked out of it,   and it was quite a sight. BLACK:  After three and a half weeks in space filled with engine burns, lunar flybys and stunning views of the earth and the moon, NASA`s Orion   spacecraft is home. But before it`s splashed down a critical test, in one of the most nail-biting times of the re-entry process, the Orion capsule   will separate from its service module then complete a skip maneuver off the edge of the Earth`s atmosphere, which will bring it closer to its landing   site and cut down on the G-forces that future astronauts will have to endure. After that, all eyes are on the heat shield as Orion blazes back to earth at temperatures twice as hot as molten lava. NASA says the heat shield has been tested more than a thousand times and making sure it can take the heat is one of the primary goals of this   mission. From the outset, the uncrewed Artemis I mission has been a dry run to make sure the spacecraft is safe enough for astronauts to fly on board. BILL NELSON, NASA ADMINISTRATOR:  We are stressing it and testing it in ways that we will not do to a rocket that has a human crew on it. BLACK:  If Artemis I is a success, it will be followed by Artemis II, which like the first mission will fly around the moon, but this time with a crew. That will be followed by Artemis III, which intends to return astronauts to the moon`s surface, including the first woman and person of color. Later missions will aim even further with the goal of sending astronauts to Mars. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE (voice-over):  Ten-second trivia: The equator runs directly through which of these countries? Kenya, Tanzania, Nigeria or Ethiopia? All of these countries are close to the equator but only Kenya is crossed by it. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  We have introduced you to several of our CNN heroes this year but on Sunday night, Anderson Cooper and Kelly Ripa announced the CNN Hero of the   Year. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ANDERSON COOPER, CNN HOST:  The CNN Hero of the Year is --   KELLY RIPPA AND COOPER:  Nelly Cheboi! (CHEERS AND APPLAUSE) (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Congratulations to Nelly Cheboi. She creates computer labs for school children in her native Kenya. In 2019, Nelly quit her software   engineering job to create her non-profit TechLit Africa. Since then, she`s provided thousands of students with upcycled computers in a way to connect with the world. Voters online selected Nelly from a list of CNN`s Top 10 Heroes. As CNN Hero of the Year, she will receive one hundred thousand dollars to expand   her work. Her story is incredible. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NELLY CHEBOI, CNN 2022 HERO OF THE YEAR:  I never forget what it was like growing poor. I never forget what it was like my stomach churning because   of hunger at night. I would have to go and scavenge for food at trash bits. We grew up in a tin roof house. It was full of potholes. I used to look at the different light bouncing from the holes from the roof, and then just imagine what we look like to sustainably fix poverty. I was a very hardworking student even though I wasn`t in school often, and even though I was the most hardworking person I knew, I still did not know   what a computer was. I am from Mogotio which is a small village in rural Kenya. And there isn`t much of an economic activity here. I got a full-ride four-year scholarship   in America at Augustana College in 2012. I got a job as a janitor cleaning bathrooms. I discovered computer science in my junior year of college just out of accident. I needed to take an   introduction to java for my math major and I just fell in love with it. I just knew this was what I wanted to do and also bring it to my community. Every three years, companies are upgrading their IT. Most of these computers are ending up in landfills. Well, we have kids here, myself   included back in the day, who don`t even know what a computer is. And so, what we`re doing is that we`re working with institutions, colleges, companies, even individuals and then we bring it to the schools. We   refurbish them. We install our own custom operating system that is geared towards teaching our kids self-efficacy, troubleshooting and Internet   skills. All of you are going to be graphic designers today. The kids that we are working with are actually from four years old all the way to 12. And there`s also vectors, it doesn`t matter how much you zoom, it`s still perfect, it`s still a line. We have people coming in and just inspiring the   kids. They can go from doing a remote class with NASA to music production, video production, coding, personal branding and so on. Right now, we`re working with 4,000 kids. My hope is that when the first TechLit kids graduate high school, their families and themselves will not   need aid because they can make money online. That money will support their families. Their money will support themselves. I can`t even describe just how dehumanizing poverty is. Just getting crushed over and over again. My mom was working really hard and I was still   going to bed hungry. I was still living in a house that was flooding. But the world is your oyster when you are educated. The thing that was really fascinating me growing up, not seeing change, not seeing hope, not even seeing progress. I feel like with this kid, I can see   a path like, I can see a way where they can make a living online. And that is really like why we`re doing this work. My life is bigger than myself. If I have the power to change anything, I have to do it. I have to give it my all. I can keep doing it. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And for today`s 10 out of 10, Mother Nature is up to snow good. Areas in the Sierra Nevada Mountains in California were pummeled with up to   three to four feet of snow over the weekend. Snow my goodness. Combine that with strong winds and even hail, and look out, don`t get in that ski lift. It`s about that time of year I guess whenever all that snow melts, it`ll be thaw-some. If high fives, hugs and handshakes were snowflakes, I`d be sending you all a blizzard. Thank you for all the love. We`re sending it right back to you. Shout out to Patrick Henry Middle School in Woodhaven, Michigan. We hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-12-14
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. It is Thursday. So, happy Friday eve. I`m your host Coy Wire. Grateful to be right here with you on CNN 10. We`re here to break down some top storylines in an upbeat and easy to understand manner. This is our penultimate show before we take a long   holiday break just today and tomorrow. So let`s make the most of them. First up, government officials in the United States are preparing for a surge of migrants along the country`s southern border with Mexico. A   December deadline to terminate a public health authority known as Title 42 is coming up. The policy was created at the start of the coronavirus   pandemic and allowed officials to quickly turn away migrants at the U.S. southern border due to concerns over the spread of the virus. Well, an end to that restriction is expected to lead to an increase in border crossings and members within both Democrat and Republican parties   are raising concerns over whether officials should consider a new policy. President Biden`s administration is already asking Congress for more than   $3 billion in assistance as it prepares for the end of the Title 42 policy. And the influx of migrants has already started. U.S. border officials have been contending with thousands of migrants crossing the border daily and   expect those numbers to increase in the coming days and weeks. Let`s break this story down by the numbers. Over the weekend, U.S. border authorities apprehended more than 16,000 people. In a single section of the border in El Paso, Texas, more than   2,400 migrants crossed into the United States each day. Many officials speculate that the end of the title policy could overwhelm an already   strained system. We`ll hear now from CNN national correspondent Ed Lavendera in El Paso, Texas, with the latest. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ED LAVANDERA, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  As the sun fades away over El Paso, a large group of migrants stand on the borders   edge waiting to be processed by border patrol agents. While a few others tiptoe across a short path through the Rio Grande. These migrants are part of a major surge of border crossings seen in El Paso in recent days, and it is happening as the projected and of a Trump   era restriction draws closer, ending the policy to swiftly expel migrants at the U.S. land borders. U.S. border authorities interacted with more than 2 million migrants in the last year, up from the previous year. But in recent days, an average of   almost 2,500 migrants a day have been moving across this border, between Mexico and the U.S. through El Paso. CLAUDIA RODRIGUEZ, EL PASO CITY COUNCIL MEMBER:  Title 42 is only going to make that situation worse, they`re going to have more apprehension, so we   are going to see a lot more releases into the community, and we`re not prepared for it. LAVANDERA:  Just three weeks ago, according to Customs and Border Protection, the seven-day rolling average was fewer than 1,700. Thousands   of migrants are now coming from Central and South America as well as Cuba, according to U.S. immigration officials. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I`m helping them get food, whatever they need. This is not even about politics. It`s about humanity. These people are here and   they are cold. LAVANDERA:  Some have been camping out across the border in Ciudad Juarez, in Mexico, raising concerns they will cross in mass if Trump era border   restrictions end about a week. Still, others have already been boarded into buses to be processed or turned around under the provisions of Title 42. JAKE SULLIVAN, NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR:  We are taking steps to be able to manage the expiration of Title 42 and to put in place a process that   will be orderly and humane. We believe that in doing so we can protect our national security concerns. LAVANDERA:  Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas arrived in El Paso today, and says he is meeting with Customs and Border Protection,   local officials, and organizations. For now, the immediate problem is housing, and managing a large influx of migrants. RUBEN GARCIA, DIRECTOR, ANNUNCIATION HOUSE:  If the court cases get resolved, and the courts allow Title 42 to be lifted, we are going to see   thousands of refugees for whom there isn`t shelter. LAVANDERA:  The director of a local El Paso shelter says border patrol recently dropped a busload of migrants at his doorstep. And he is worried   he will soon have to turn people away. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We`re going to have to say no, not because we want to, but simply because we don`t have space. The reality is, there`s just too   many people. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: What is the most populated country in the world? Russia, China, United States or India? With an estimated 1.4 billion people, China edges out India as the most populated country in the world. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  As we`ve discussed, China is reopening its doors after three years of its zero COVID policy, the last country on the planet to do so. While the policy did keep spread of the virus low, it stressed the daily lives of citizens inside the country, with mandatory tests and quarantines.   But now that many of the restrictions in China have been removed, by many accounts, the streets feel more empty than when`s restrictions were there.   Why? Because fear of the virus remains, in large part because coronavirus is spreading quickly in China. More now from CNN international correspondent Selina Wang who`s on the scene in Beijing. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SELINA WANG, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  China is starting to unravel its zero COVID policy. But instead of crowds out celebrating, this is how   reopening is going in China -- close shops, empty streets, people avoiding each other because for the first time since the start of the pandemic,   COVID is spreading like wildfire in Beijing. People now either have COVID or they`re scared to get it. So I just spoke to the shop worker in the store and he told me that he`s the only employee without COVID which is why he can still come to work and   he says, I am the only customer who has come into this store all day. The only crowds I`m seeing in Beijing outside of hospitals like this and pharmacies. So he says his fever`s gone down but he still has a cold, hoping to buy medicine but he`s worried they don`t have any stock because there`s these   long lines forming outside of pharmacies across the country people are trying to stock up but stuff is selling out. You know, for years, China has been demonizing COVID, playing up the risks of long COVID and now suddenly state media is publishing headlines every   day saying COVID is not a big deal. It`s whiplash for a lot of people because just weeks before, if you got COVID, your whole community would   have gone into hard lockdown. This is such a major and sudden change. So China is finally opening up. How do you feel about it? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I feel is pretty great. I wish they could have opened up earlier. WANG:  Has business been very slow or difficult? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You know, you can see, there -- there are not that many customers. A lot of people just got the virus. WANG:  Are you scared about getting COVID? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I`m worried about my parents and my grandparents a little bit. WANG:  People are relieved though that you no longer have to go to a quarantined facility if you get COVID. Getting sent to one of those rundown   facilities was such a big source of anxiety before. And these health QR codes that have been used for years to track and dictate where we can go -- well, the government is now saying that you   don`t need them to enter most public places. So I don`t need to scan my code. It feels surreal though that I can literally just walk in. So she said I can only do online delivery. So you can`t even sit inside or order inside in Shake Shack. So outside the Starbucks, they have a sign saying you need to show a 40- hour COVID test, even though the national rules don`t require it, in Beijing, you still need a recent PCR test in order to enter restaurants,   gyms and entertainment venues. There are way less places now to get COVID tests in the city, and the lines are short because most people are just staying at home. But just a week   before, at this exact same location, this was packed with people waiting in line. So behind me is a graveyard of COVID testing booths. It`s like almost overnight in Beijing, they removed all of these testing locations and   here`s the remnants. After years of harsh lockdowns, the government is finally letting people manage their own health. But people don`t feel ready and experts say the   country isn`t either. The country hasn`t vaccinated enough of the elderly population and has it improved the health care capacity enough. So this   reopening it`s going to continue to be messy and uneven. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s 10 out of 10, a family from Gretna, Virginia, is an enlightened bunch who really know how to conduct themselves at Christmas   time. Mike Clay says he used more than 30,000 lights to decorate his house and it lights up the entire street. Inspired by the movie "National Lampoon`s Christmas Vacation", he says he decorates in memory of his grandfather. His light bill jumps up by a   hundred dollars though during the month but he says it`s total really worth it. If loving Christmas is wrong, Mr. Clay don`t want to be light because   he loves Christmas a lots. Shout out to Clark Middle School in Anchorage, Alaska. Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube Channel. Lovely people, keep letting your light shine bright for all to see. Lift someone up today. Lend a helping hand or simply give a smile. You are more   powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-12-15
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. It is Thursday. So, happy Friday eve. I`m your host Coy Wire. Grateful to be right here with you on CNN 10.  We`re here to break down some top storylines in an upbeat and easy to understand manner. This is our penultimate show before we take a long   holiday break just today and tomorrow. So let`s make the most of them. First up, government officials in the United States are preparing for a surge of migrants along the country`s southern border with Mexico. A   December deadline to terminate a public health authority known as Title 42 is coming up. The policy was created at the start of the coronavirus   pandemic and allowed officials to quickly turn away migrants at the U.S. southern border due to concerns over the spread of the virus.  Well, an end to that restriction is expected to lead to an increase in border crossings and members within both Democrat and Republican parties   are raising concerns over whether officials should consider a new policy. President Biden`s administration is already asking Congress for more than   $3 billion in assistance as it prepares for the end of the Title 42 policy. And the influx of migrants has already started. U.S. border officials have been contending with thousands of migrants crossing the border daily and   expect those numbers to increase in the coming days and weeks. Let`s break this story down by the numbers.  Over the weekend, U.S. border authorities apprehended more than 16,000 people. In a single section of the border in El Paso, Texas, more than   2,400 migrants crossed into the United States each day. Many officials speculate that the end of the title policy could overwhelm an already   strained system.  We`ll hear now from CNN national correspondent Ed Lavendera in El Paso, Texas, with the latest. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ED LAVANDERA, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  As the sun fades away over El Paso, a large group of migrants stand on the borders   edge waiting to be processed by border patrol agents. While a few others tiptoe across a short path through the Rio Grande.  These migrants are part of a major surge of border crossings seen in El Paso in recent days, and it is happening as the projected and of a Trump   era restriction draws closer, ending the policy to swiftly expel migrants at the U.S. land borders.  U.S. border authorities interacted with more than 2 million migrants in the last year, up from the previous year. But in recent days, an average of   almost 2,500 migrants a day have been moving across this border, between Mexico and the U.S. through El Paso.  CLAUDIA RODRIGUEZ, EL PASO CITY COUNCIL MEMBER:  Title 42 is only going to make that situation worse, they`re going to have more apprehension, so we   are going to see a lot more releases into the community, and we`re not prepared for it.  LAVANDERA:  Just three weeks ago, according to Customs and Border Protection, the seven-day rolling average was fewer than 1,700. Thousands   of migrants are now coming from Central and South America as well as Cuba, according to U.S. immigration officials.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I`m helping them get food, whatever they need. This is not even about politics. It`s about humanity. These people are here and   they are cold.  LAVANDERA:  Some have been camping out across the border in Ciudad Juarez, in Mexico, raising concerns they will cross in mass if Trump era border   restrictions end about a week.  Still, others have already been boarded into buses to be processed or turned around under the provisions of Title 42.  JAKE SULLIVAN, NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR:  We are taking steps to be able to manage the expiration of Title 42 and to put in place a process that   will be orderly and humane. We believe that in doing so we can protect our national security concerns.  LAVANDERA:  Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas arrived in El Paso today, and says he is meeting with Customs and Border Protection,   local officials, and organizations.  For now, the immediate problem is housing, and managing a large influx of migrants.  RUBEN GARCIA, DIRECTOR, ANNUNCIATION HOUSE:  If the court cases get resolved, and the courts allow Title 42 to be lifted, we are going to see   thousands of refugees for whom there isn`t shelter.  LAVANDERA:  The director of a local El Paso shelter says border patrol recently dropped a busload of migrants at his doorstep. And he is worried   he will soon have to turn people away.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We`re going to have to say no, not because we want to, but simply because we don`t have space. The reality is, there`s just too   many people.  (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: What is the most populated country in the world? Russia, China, United States or India? With an estimated 1.4 billion people, China edges out India as the most populated country in the world.  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  As we`ve discussed, China is reopening its doors after three years of its zero COVID policy, the last country on the planet to do so. While the policy did keep spread of the virus low, it stressed the daily lives of citizens inside the country, with mandatory tests and quarantines.   But now that many of the restrictions in China have been removed, by many accounts, the streets feel more empty than when`s restrictions were there.   Why? Because fear of the virus remains, in large part because coronavirus is spreading quickly in China. More now from CNN international correspondent Selina Wang who`s on the scene in Beijing. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SELINA WANG, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  China is starting to unravel its zero COVID policy. But instead of crowds out celebrating, this is how   reopening is going in China -- close shops, empty streets, people avoiding each other because for the first time since the start of the pandemic,   COVID is spreading like wildfire in Beijing. People now either have COVID or they`re scared to get it. So I just spoke to the shop worker in the store and he told me that he`s the only employee without COVID which is why he can still come to work and   he says, I am the only customer who has come into this store all day. The only crowds I`m seeing in Beijing outside of hospitals like this and pharmacies.  So he says his fever`s gone down but he still has a cold, hoping to buy medicine but he`s worried they don`t have any stock because there`s these   long lines forming outside of pharmacies across the country people are trying to stock up but stuff is selling out.  You know, for years, China has been demonizing COVID, playing up the risks of long COVID and now suddenly state media is publishing headlines every   day saying COVID is not a big deal. It`s whiplash for a lot of people because just weeks before, if you got COVID, your whole community would   have gone into hard lockdown. This is such a major and sudden change.  So China is finally opening up. How do you feel about it?  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I feel is pretty great. I wish they could have opened up earlier. WANG:  Has business been very slow or difficult? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You know, you can see, there -- there are not that many customers. A lot of people just got the virus. WANG:  Are you scared about getting COVID? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I`m worried about my parents and my grandparents a little bit. WANG:  People are relieved though that you no longer have to go to a quarantined facility if you get COVID. Getting sent to one of those rundown   facilities was such a big source of anxiety before. And these health QR codes that have been used for years to track and dictate where we can go -- well, the government is now saying that you   don`t need them to enter most public places. So I don`t need to scan my code. It feels surreal though that I can literally just walk in. So she said I can only do online delivery. So you can`t even sit inside or order inside in Shake Shack.  So outside the Starbucks, they have a sign saying you need to show a 40- hour COVID test, even though the national rules don`t require it, in Beijing, you still need a recent PCR test in order to enter restaurants,   gyms and entertainment venues. There are way less places now to get COVID tests in the city, and the lines are short because most people are just staying at home. But just a week   before, at this exact same location, this was packed with people waiting in line. So behind me is a graveyard of COVID testing booths. It`s like almost overnight in Beijing, they removed all of these testing locations and   here`s the remnants. After years of harsh lockdowns, the government is finally letting people manage their own health. But people don`t feel ready and experts say the   country isn`t either. The country hasn`t vaccinated enough of the elderly population and has it improved the health care capacity enough. So this   reopening it`s going to continue to be messy and uneven. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s 10 out of 10, a family from Gretna, Virginia, is an enlightened bunch who really know how to conduct themselves at Christmas   time. Mike Clay says he used more than 30,000 lights to decorate his house and it lights up the entire street. Inspired by the movie "National Lampoon`s Christmas Vacation", he says he decorates in memory of his grandfather. His light bill jumps up by a   hundred dollars though during the month but he says it`s total really worth it. If loving Christmas is wrong, Mr. Clay don`t want to be light because   he loves Christmas a lots. Shout out to Clark Middle School in Anchorage, Alaska. Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube Channel.  Lovely people, keep letting your light shine bright for all to see. Lift someone up today. Lend a helping hand or simply give a smile. You are more   powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2022-12-16
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. You made it to Friday, and you already know Friday`s rock. Now, this is a last show of 2022, and one thing making it extra special is that you helped write it. See if you can find your word that you sent me   via social media sprinkled somewhere within.  I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. Let`s finish this week`s strong. We start with news on the economy, specifically the labor force. Employers need workers and that`s good news. There`s nearly two job openings for   every job seeker. The shortage of workers in the United States has many employers ready to fight to retain talent. This is especially good for   previously untapped labor populations where traditionally it was difficult to get a job.  And it also seems particularly good news for job-seeking women. The last jobs report revealed that 62 percent of the job gains last month went to   women, narrowing the gap in labor force participation rate between men and women.  New data this week shows that middle-aged men ages 35 to 44 have been slow to rejoin labor force recently the participation rate for men ages to 30 to   44 is lower than it was before the pandemic. Economists say there are many reasons the male labor force participation rate is down, including changing   needs and interests in the post-pandemic world.  We`ll hear more now from CNN reporter Vanessa Yurkevich who has reported extensively on the labor market. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DAVID SHNITZLER, AT-HOME DAD:  Good morning, Winston. Let`s start the day.  YURKEVICH (voice over):  It`s a typical day in the Shnitzler household. Seventeen month old Winston is up and parents David and Allison (ph) are   getting ready for work. Winston is fed, there`s some play, and then the morning good-byes.  ALLISON SHNITZLER, FAMILY PHYSICIAN:  Bye-bye. D. SHNITZLER:  Say bye-bye. YURKEVICH:  They`re off to work. A. SHNITZLER:  Bye-bye. Have a good day. YURKEVICH:  Allison, a family physician, and David, an insurance underwriter, now an at-home dad.  D. SCHNITZLER:  Caring for Winston, tending to the house, playing with him, all of that comes first.  YURKEVICH:  Last year the Schnitzler`s made a significant life change.  D. SCHNITZLER:  We made that decision to have me stay home.  YURKEVICH:  David quit his job to take care of Winston full time so Allison could continue her career.  D. SCHNITZLER:  We`re happy with the roles that we`re in. It`s phenomenal.  YURKEVICH:  And in recent months, more men ages 30 to 44 have been dropping out of the workforce according to data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.   The labor force participation rate for men in that age group is lower than it was pre-pandemic.  RICHARD V. REEVES, SENOR FELLOW, BROOKINGS INSTITUTION:  I don`t think it`s a secret that many of us rethought our whole work life balance, what were   we doing, who`s raising the kids, how do we want our family to work? That`s a question that a lot of families have been asking themselves. YURKEVICH:  And more women in recent months ages 30 to 44 are participating in the labor force and at a higher rate than pre- pandemic according to   Labor Department data. And they`re moving into more male dominated industries.  REEVES:  The fears of a she-cession turned out largely to be unfounded. Women are returning to the labor market. It`s becoming increasingly common   to see women, for example, having project management roles or generally management positions within construction.  YURKEVICH:  Women like Ava Sedaghat.  AVA SEDAGHAT, PROJECT ENGINEER:  I knew I wanted to work in construction management.  YURKEVICH:  Sedaghat joined the construction industry two years ago as a project engineer. Today, women make up just 14 percent of the construction   industry, but it`s the highest on record.  SEDAGHAT:  I think it was definitely intimidating. My only knowledge of the construction industry was that it was pretty heavy and male dominated. But   the more that I started working in the industry and the more people I came into contact with, I think I realized pretty quickly on that there`s a   place for everyone in construction.  (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia:  The term "metaverse" was coined by: A science fiction writer, the founder of Facebook, a programmer at Google, or a college professor? In 1992, the term metaverse was coined by sci-fi writer Neal Stephenson.  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ever since its inception, the metaverse has had many people flummoxed, even flabbergasted. Is it simply like a video game or could it   evolve actually into a common way of life?  In the metaverse, you can virtually be transported from your couch to a classroom, from a living room to a work luncheon. You could walk alongside   a hippopotamus on safari or wear a spinny hat and get rambunctious with friends at a concert by Bieber, Drake in the weekend, and you wouldn`t even   have to leave your room. While this technology is catching up with fantasy, it`s still being built and is constantly evolving. CNN reporter Anna Stewart has more from Dubai. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANNA STEWART, CNN CORESPONDENT:  Remember this movie? The concept of a virtual universe is rooted in science fiction and for years, it`s been just that fiction. But now, technology is beginning to   catch up, bringing the idea of the metaverse to reality.  It`s home to concerts, expensive digital real estate and hugely popular games. But what exactly is the metaverse? What does it do, and why should   you care? Let`s break it down. NEAL STEPHENSON, AUTHOR, SNOW CRASH:  It means a virtual environment. STEWART:  This is Neal Stephenson. He came up with a term metaverse back in 1992. For his book "Snow Crash". Back to you Neal. STEPHENSON:  Where large numbers of people can get together and interact with each other, not as they are but through avatars, which are kind of the   three-dimensional representations. STEWART:  For so long, our experiences with the Internet have been 2D, it`s been something we look at. But the metaverse gives users the sense of being   transported into the Internet like this.  Oh hi. ANDREW BOSWORTH, CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER, META:  Hello. STEWART:  Meet Andrew Bosworth, also known as Boz. He works at Meta, formerly named Facebook. Great.  Do we shake hands? How does this work? BOSWORTH:  We can do a high five.  STEWART:  This is Horizon Workrooms, the company`s foothold in the metaverse. It`s just one of the many ways into the metaverse that are   currently available. In these virtual worlds, you can play games, do business and dance with strangers that turn into friends, except that this friend could be on the   other side of the world. BOSWORTH:  Is it as good as being together? No, and it probably never will be, but it`s the next best thing. STEWART:  This all sounds exciting, until you realize that the technology for building this new iteration of the Internet is -- well, still being   built. For now, it`s this place where you can be whoever you want and immerse your virtual self into this alternative world that pushes past physical   barriers, to collaborate and interact with other virtual avatars, objects and environments.  As promising as it all may sound, we still have a long way to go before we`re living like this. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Then for today`s 10 out of 10, a viral reunion viewed more than 10 million times. Baby Kucheza struggled to breathe after Mama Mahale gave an   emergency C-section birth at the Sedgwick County Zoo in Kansas. Fortunately, doctors saved Baby Kucheza, a sweet, adorable little   chimpanzee. Well, after being separated for two days during recovery, take a look at the moment that mama realized her baby was back, reaching for   her.  You can feel the relief. Mama swooping her baby up cuddling her safely in her arms. That is love. As I mentioned earlier this is our last show of the year. So special shout out to Mrs. Barnes` class at Hopewell Middle School in Milton, Georgia.   Also a special shout out to our small but mighty CNN team, Jackie, Maya, Nadir and Jeremy. They work so hard -- care so hard to make this the best   10 minutes in news for you. And I speak for all of us when I say thank you for all the love you`ve shown. We love learning and growing with you, being unified, inspired and   uplifted by the stories we share. We`re going to miss this while we`re on a break for the holidays. We`re back January 9th and we wish you many   blessings and a happy holidays.  Let`s finish this year strong so we can take boundless energy into 2023. We leave you now with some of the powerful images of the places, people and   stories we learned about together. I`m Coy Wire and it`s been a blessing to spend 2022 with you. END     

Date: 2022-12-25
Did Not Air. END     

Date: 2023-01-09
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello from Buffalo, everyone. It`s your boy Coy and we have missed you. We hope the start of your New Year has been full of   love and positive energy. I know we`re feeling it now that we are back. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we start with a remarkable story that has transpired here in Buffalo, New York, this past week. Bills` player Damar Hamlin was tragically   injured, suffering cardiac arrest in the first quarter of their game last Monday. And in an unprecedented move, Bills players and head coach Sean   McDermott refused to play on. In the past, games have always played on, but these NFL players prioritize their mental health over the outcome of the   game.  Hamlin spent the following days in critical condition but eventually showed enough progress to surprise the team with a video called days before their   final regular season game. The team said that`s all they needed. The game was magical. Bills head coach Sean McDermott said it was going to be a celebration of life, the power of three, Damar`s jersey number was everywhere. Then,   powerful moment, the medical workers and training staff who pounced in with poise and precision to save Damar Hamlin`s life walk to midfield getting an   ovation as big as any we`ve ever heard. Then, game time. And on the opening play, the Bills first since the tragic injury goosebumps, when Nyheim Hines took the kickoff back for a touchdown.   It had been three years and three months since the Bills had done that before. Bills star quarterback Josh Allen said it was spiritual, bone   chilling, and Damar Hamlin watching from the hospital tweeted: God behind all this no coincidence. Buffalo would go on to win 35-23. Here`s star offensive lineman Dion Dawkins on what he`s learned through all of this. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DION DAWKINS, BUFFALO BILLS:  No second, no breath, no event, no situation is promised. It could be a drastic this or this at any moment. And I have   truly learned to be a better father, to be a better partner, to be a better person. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Remember lovely people, we can find strength through our struggles, find heroes through heartache. The world has come together to support Damar   Hamlin. His GoFundMe charity to raise money to buy toys for kids originally set out to raise twenty five hundred dollars. It has skyrocketed to more   than $8.5 million so far. All right. Next up, we`re bringing you to Washington, D.C. with an update on what`s happening in the U.S. Congress. Every time a new political party   gains the majority in the House of Representatives, a new speaker of the House is elected. The speaker is in charge of the House`s legislative   agenda, its committee assignments, and deciding on voting procedures.  Democrat Nancy Pelosi stepped down from her role as speaker of the House in November following the U.S. midterm elections where Republicans won back   control of the House. This week, California Congressman Kevin McCarthy was elected speaker, but it wasn`t easy. McCarthy made numerous concessions   over the course of many days before he finally earned a majority and was elected on the 15th round of voting.  To secure the gavel, McCarthy and his allies overcame opposition from a group of conservative critics within the Republican Party. It was the   longest contest in 164 years. Many Republicans fear this may make it harder to govern in the future while Democrats who voted unanimously for their   candidate, the minority leader Hakeem Jeffries, were happy to see what many called chaos for the opposing party. More now from politics reporter Eva McKend who has more on the proceeding from the nation`s capital. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) EVA MCKEND, CNN NATIONAL POLITICS REPORTER:  House Speaker Kevin McCarthy securing a victory at long last by picking off his detractors one by one,   doing so through making some key concessions. Namely, it will require only one member to trigger a vote that could potentially lead to ousting the   House speaker. Take a listen to what McCarthy had to say after the vote. REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-CA), SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE:  Don`t judge us on how we start, watch how we finish. And I think by having the disruption now really   built the trust with one another and learned how to work together. What we`re going to have to find in our mindset is that we have to front load   that we have to think about and work on the bills with a microcosm of the conference before we even start writing it and that`s really what we   learned here. MCKEND:  So you can hear McCarthy there really striking in optimistic tone Republicans have done so as well, arguing that this week really illustrated   that this is what democracy looks like. That sometimes it is messy -- well, Democrats, they have a different view. They say that the chaotic episodes   that played out on the House floor time and time again really illustrate that Republicans are not prepared to govern.  They will face another key test. This new Republican leadership on Monday when they have to vote on a House rules package. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Okay. Yesterday, President Joe Biden made his first trip in office to the U.S.-Mexico border where he visited El Paso, Texas. This follows a   major immigration policy announcement by the president who visited the border Sunday for a first-hand view of the border enforcement operation.   Biden has faced backlash in recent months from both Democrats in his own party and Republicans who believe he has not managed immigration issues   well while in office. Democrats condemn recent immigration policies as human rights violations while Republicans say the president has not done enough to limit border   crossing amid recent surge.  We`ll hear now from Arlette Saenz, a CNN White House correspondent based in D.C. who has more on the details of the visit. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  El Paso, Texas, a city that has seen a surge in migrants in recent weeks. Officials here at the White   House say the president wants to see get an assessment of the border security situation on the ground there, and he will meet and hear from   officials with Customs and Border Protection. The president will also be joined on this trip by Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas.  And officials have also said he the president wants to learn more about the efforts to stem fentanyl flow into the country.  Now, this all comes as the president has faced pressure not just to visit the border but also address these issues regarding the border, as it has   quickly become a political liability for President Biden. The Texas governor, a Republican, Greg Abbott, said that it`s about time that   President Biden paid that visit down to the U.S.-Mexico border.  But on the other hand, the president has also accused Republicans of engaging in demagoguery, saying that they need to come to the table to pass   comprehensive immigration reform which this White House says is the only way to fully ease these issues relating to the border. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: What is the world`s smallest ocean? Indian, Pacific, Arctic or Atlantic? Answer is: the smallest and shallowest ocean on earth is the Arctic Ocean. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Next up, a snowy owl normally found in the Arctic tundra shows up 3,000 miles away amid palm trees and beaches of sunny southern California.   The extremely rare sighting has transfixed a California community, but as for how the owl arrived there, who-who could know? Maybe CNN reporter   Jeanne Moos. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  It`s a head scratcher, all right, how did a snowy owl that normally lives in the Arctic tundra end up   amid the palm trees of southern California? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I consider an honor to be able to see the bird. MOOS:  Bird lovers are flocking to Cypress, California, to get a peek. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  That`s so exciting. I see a bird that does not belong here. MOOS:  Yeah. Well, not everyone is excited. JARET DAVEY, WETLANDS AND WILDLIFE CARE CENTER:  There were all these crows that were just dive bombing it and trying to like scare it away and the owl   was just unfazed. MOOS:  Not so unfazed, the birder who posted this video Nicholas Belardes admits, "I teared up". A marine biologist told "The New York Times" it`s like seeing Santa Claus on a beach.  Wildlife experts are watching the owl like a hawk, even to the point of climbing up a ladder to retrieve a pellet regurgitated by the raptor. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Oh so a treasure right away. MOOS:  The birds expel the indigestible parts of their meals, so the Wetlands and Wildlife Care Center decided to check on the owl`s taste in   California cuisine. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This looks like the skull. Yeah, look at that, the skull of some kind of rodent. MOOS:  We know what it ate but we don`t know how it got here. Is it an escaped illegal pet? Or did it hitch a ride on a freighter from up north?   Or maybe it just got disoriented and flew too far south? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It looks nice and fluffy. MOOS:  Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Owl right. Now, time for our favorite part of the day, special shout out to Caro Middle School in Caro, Michigan. Thanks for Carolyn enough to   show us some love on our YouTube channel. Remember, the strongest steel is burned in the hottest cold. So no matter what you`re going through, just keep going. Sending you some good vibes and   Buffalove to start your week.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-01-10
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. Terrific Tuesday to you. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, still here in Buffalo, New York. Yesterday, I told you about the remarkable story of the Buffalo Bills who rallied in their final game of the regular season for their injured   teammate Damar Hamlin who suffered cardiac arrest during their game last week. Well, I am happy to report that Damar has been released from the   hospital in Cincinnati and is back in Buffalo. So some encouraging news to start our day. All right. We`ve got a big show for you but only 10 minutes to do it, so let`s get to it. We start with the latest news from Brazil. Political unrest gripping the streets of Brazil this week. Supporters of the country`s former president,   Jair Bolsonaro, storming official buildings in the capitol to protest what they believe was a stolen election. The election was narrowly won by former   Brazilian President Lula da Silva, who first served in the role from 2003 to 2011.  But Bolsonaro encouraged supporters to question the country`s electronic voting system. Over one thousand people were arrested for protesting.   Bolsonaro supporters have been camping out in tent cities ever since the election back in October.  The new president will face major challenges early on as divisions in the country feel profound. More now from CNN`s Rafael Romo, a senior Latin   American affairs editor of CNN worldwide.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RAFAEL ROMO, CNN SENIOR LATIN AMERICAN AFFAIRS EDITOR:  Brazil boiling over. Supporters of former Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro stormed key   buildings in the country`s capital Sunday breaching security barriers and temporarily occupying the country`s Congress, presidential palace and   Supreme Court.  Masses of protesters flooded the country`s seat of power, many dressed in the colors of Brazil`s flag yellow and green, fueled by anger and distrust   over Bolsonaro`s defeat in a runoff election last October where he lost by less than two percentage points to current President Luiz Inacio Lula Da   Silva.  Protesters threw objects and scaled the roofs of buildings, while clashing with police who responded with tear gas. At least one protester was seen   sitting at the desk of Brazil`s congress president.  CNN Brazil reports the floor of the Congress building was flooded after the sprinkler system activated when protesters attempted to set fire to the   carpet. By evening, police began dispersing the rioters from buildings and arrested hundreds of people who were detained in buses before being taken   to the police station. President Lula Da Silva who was inaugurated just a week ago described the events as barbaric and vowed to punish the people responsible. LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA, BRAZILIAN PRESIDENT (through translator):  Those people that we call fascists. We call them everything that`s abominable in   politics. They invaded the government headquarters,. and they invaded the Congress like vandals, destroying everything in their path. ROMO:  President Lula da Silva also blamed his predecessor for the lack of security in the capital where Bolsonaro`s supporters have been camped out   for over a week. Bolsonaro who is currently in Florida denounced what he called the depredations and invasions of public buildings in a tweet,   adding that peaceful and lawful demonstrations are part of democracy.  But critics say Bolsonaro may have stirred up the crowds by repeatedly saying without evidence that he questioned the integrity of the country`s   electronic voting system. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: After China, India, and the United States, which country has the highest population? Pakistan, Russia, Indonesia or Mexico? Home to over 275 million people, the fourth most populated country in the world is the archipelago of Indonesia. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Next, we`re traveling to the province of Bali, Indonesia, where Bali is facing a water crisis. Once clean water is dirty from tourism   development, population growth and water mismanagement. While Bali sees a lot of rain, water shortages are already impacting Bali`s culture and the   people`s quality of life, and experts warn the situation will worsen if water control practices aren`t properly implemented. Let`s go now to Bali to learn more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BILL WEIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  The Indonesian province Bali is known for its rich culture, breathtaking natural beauty and rain, lots of   rain. But while tourism took a hit during the COVID-19 pandemic, a five-month rainy season doesn`t stop millions from visiting the island in a typical   year. And for those who live here, the seasonal deluge serves as a reminder of an ongoing water crisis. In fact, one innovative local school has made   the stuff of life the centerpiece of its curriculum. LESLIE MEDEMA, HEAD OF CAMPUS, GREEN SCHOOL BALI:  We chose water as a theme for last year and this year because despite what everybody thinks,   there`s a water shortage in Bali. We have rains for months and months and months, and they fill the reservoirs but very, very quickly those   reservoirs run dry. WEIR:  More tourists and residents take a dramatic toll on the island`s natural water resources, but that`s not the only concern. MEDEMA:  Just in the last 10 years, many, many villages have been noticing their once clean water has turned very, very dirty, and no longer usable.   We`ve noticed a very serious water crisis arising in a place where that really shouldn`t be the case. WEIR:  Tucked away in a forested patch miles inland from the southern beaches, the Green School Bali was built to create the next generation of   problem solvers. MEDEMA:  Currently on campus, there are student-led projects that have been activated. WEIR:  Built from bamboo and other sustainable material, the impressive open-air facilities were designed to inspire imagination and creativity,   each structure a base for what the school`s founders call a living curriculum. MEDEMA:  The point is to be part of reimagining education, to be something that inspires action-based learning now all across the globe.  WEIR:  We are cultivating an optimistic, thoughtful and positive approach to climate and climate action. We want them to feel hopeful. We want them   to feel like they have the skills, they have the ability to engage proactively in the world. After a group of students became fascinated with   biofuels, the school created a network of bio buses, each running on used cooking oil refined by science. MEDEMA:  You`re looking at a really wide-ranging learning experience from enterprise to marketing to management because it became its own company and   the largest biofuel transportation company in Indonesia. WEIR:  Dipta is an 11th grader driven to find solutions by the desperate need close to home. DIPTA, STUDENT, GREEN SCHOOL BALI:  It starts off personally, right? The problem comes off from my hometown Kintamani, we didn`t have enough water   and then after that realizing that also a lot of other people don`t have access to clean and drinkable water. He launched Liquify, a non-profit with a mission to provide sustainable filtration systems, help residents build recharge wells that replenish   aquifers, and water catchment systems to collect rainfall for other uses.  DIPTA:  The innovation hub that we have at green school gives me the tools to create what I need to create, what I want to create, and to help me help   other people as well. The Green School Bali opened in 2008 and now includes locations in New Zealand, South Africa and Mexico. MEDEMA:  Our mission is a community of learners making our world sustainable. And so when you put community back at the center of a school,   you end up being more accountable for the actions that you take and I think that`s a good thing. It`s the full spectrum of local to global action-based   environmental learning. (END VIDEOTAPE) WEIR:  And for today`s "10 out of 10", a family in Plainville, Connecticut, could barely believe what they discovered in their backyard. Their dog   started acting all nervous one day and they soon learned a black bear was hibernating under their deck.  After contacting their local environmental agency for advice, the family decided to do the bare minimum. They`re going to grin and bear it and have   a backyard slumber party all winter, just let the big fellas news I guess and hibernate. And around mid-March though, old sleepy is going to wake up   and the first thing bears typically do is they search for food so look out doggy. All right. Dad joke alert: what do you call a bear with no teeth? A gummy bear. All right. Time for our special shout out today. Madison County High School in Madison, Florida. Go Cowboys! Let`s all do our part so make this world a   bit of a better place even if it`s just making someone smile today. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-01-11
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. I wonderful Wednesday to you. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we`ve got a rendezvous with the news. Still here in Buffalo, New York, outside of Buffalo General Hospital, and yet another positive update on Bills player Damar Hamlin who suffered   cardiac arrest during a game last week. Hospital officials have told us doctors are optimistic that Damar could be well enough to go home in the   coming days and his parents are here in Buffalo reunited alongside their son. So wonderful, wonderful news. Next up today, a prominent research group in Washington recently conducted a war game simulation of a possible conflict. It`s one that`s preoccupied   military and political leaders in Asia and across the world. The scenario would be an invasion by China against Taiwan. Taiwan is a democratically   ruled island of 24 million people that the Chinese Communist Party believes belongs to their sovereign territory. The Center for Strategic and International Studies ran the program as software that it claims is one of the most extensive war game simulations   ever conducted on a possible conflict over Taiwan. The company believes the project was necessary because previous government and private company war   simulations have focused too narrowly on the possible way events in an invasion might unfold and weren`t specific enough on how to help the   government and policymakers try to prepare for how a potential conflict may play out. Let`s go to Washington now to hear from CNN Pentagon correspondent Oren Liebermann who has details from the results of the simulations. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Taiwan is perhaps the most sensitive flash point between the U.S. and China. Some   experts are warning that Beijing`s use of force to claim what it sees as its rightful territory is drawing closer. Chairman Xi Jinping has made it a   priority for Beijing which hasn`t ruled out the use of force, a decision that could cost thousands of lives for China, Taiwan, and America. A war game from the Center for Strategic and International Studies begins with a Chinese missile barrage against Taiwan`s military in 2026,   destroying much of its air force and navy, followed by an amphibious across the Taiwan Strait. Taiwanese forces fight back using advanced U.S. weaponry   -- Patriot missiles for air defense, anti-ship missiles and torpedoes for sea defense, and its ground forces to defend the beachheads. The top U.S. general says the key to avoiding conflict is deterrence. GEN. MARK MILLEY, CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF:  As long as we remain number one, then we will deter the war that people worry about, a   great power war between China and the United States. LIEBERMANN:  Crucially, this war game doesn`t ask the question of what would happen to make China decide to use military force to invade Taiwan.   That remains an open question. But it`s a crucial one to understanding the situation, especially given the West`s reaction to Russia`s invasion of Ukraine, sanctions that have   crippled Russia`s economy. Would China run the same risk given its own imports and exports, given its industrial economic power, or would it use   those powers to try to control Taiwan without using its military? And that is a critical question. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: "Flindrikin" and "unbrak" are words used in Scotland to describe what? Food, snow, hairstyles or movies? There are over 400 words in Scotland for snow with flindrikin, meaning a light snow. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Right now, those words for snow aren`t being used much and that`s because it`s shorts weather across large parts of Europe right now.   Thousands of temperature records were shattered in an historic winter warm spell. In fact, temperatures are 18 to 36 degrees higher than average this   month. In Poland, it`s up to about 66 degrees, parts of Spain about 77 degrees. This is good news for the economy but bad news for Russia who   hoped cutting energy exports to Europe would cause the economy to suffer. But it`s not all good news. Many Alpine ski resorts have closed or at least partially shut down because of a lack of snow, and there`s also concern   about what this higher than normal weather means for the environment. Up next, we`ll hear from CNN anchor and correspondent Isa Soares who`s on the ground in Europe with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ISA SOARES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  The New Year may have only just begun, but temperatures are already heating up across much of Europe. At least eight countries smashed their winter weather record, having recorded their warmest day ever in January. As the world rang in New Year`s celebrations this week, climatologists were busy tracking extreme temperatures and found countries including Poland,   Denmark, the Czech Republic, Lichtenstein and Belarus all reached alarmingly warm temperatures on January the 1st. Meteorologists say it`s too early to attribute the extreme heat to climate change but do say the driving force is a warm air mass from Africa`s west   coast moving across Europe. It may look warm in the Spanish city of Bilbao, but locals are noticeably wearing winter coats, basking in the winter sun. EUSEBIO FOLGEIRA, BILBAO, SPAIN, RESIDENT (through translator):  It`s not normal for Bilbao to have such good weather. It always rains a lot here.   It`s very cold, and it`s January. And it feels like summer. SOARES:  And what would normally be covered in snow, this ski resort in France is now starved of it, forcing businesses to shut their doors to   customers until conditions improve. GREGORY ROMANO, RESTAURANT MANAGER (through translator):  Sure we are, of course, a little bit sad about having to close. We had a good Christmas   holiday season, which matters. SOARES:  Over in war torn Ukraine, with much of the country`s energy infrastructure damaged or destroyed, millions of Ukrainians were without   power over Christmas. The cities across the country, including Kyiv, broke weather records in January, which may have helped reduce energy consumption. As Ukrainian advisor Anton Gerashchenko put at it, even the weather is on our side. Just before the year came to an end, the U.K.`s Met office said last year sweltering heat, which ran rivers dry and caused a drought in parts of   England, was the country`s hottest on record. Though January`s mild temperatures might provide some relief to the cold, meteorologists warn it   could offer a glimpse of a concerning and possibly even warmer future. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Up next, a vast array of new cutting edge technology and some just plain strange technology were shown off by companies at the consumer   electronics show in Las Vegas last week. Many inventions offered a new twist on old problems and global challenges. CNN international anchor Lynda Kinkade has the story and as you watch, think about what your favorite gadget is and let me know why @CoyWire wire   on social. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LYNDA KINKADE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Thousands of emerging startups and global brands are showcasing cutting edge gadgets and gizmos   designed to help solve some of the world`s greatest challenges from the day to day to the life-saving by taking the guesswork out of testing the   ripeness of an avocado relieve anxiety with a therapeutic cat pillow that wags. SHUNSUKE AOKI, PRESIDENT & CEO, YUKAI ENGINEERING:  The more you cuddle, it -- the more excited it gets. KINKADE:  Health innovations are prominently featured, trying to brain scanning helmet that claims to detect early signs of dementia and   Parkinson`s. Rest your head on a pillow designed to give a better night`s sleep, and watch a demo of an at-home defibrillator, a device that the company says   saved 17 lives last year. JOHANN KALCHMA, CEO, LIFEAZ:  But we have developed the first life-saving defibrillator made for the home, so anyone can have it at home. It`s   extremely simple to use. It`s portable; you can have it at home. You can have it in your backpack when you do the gym, when you go on vacation. KINKADE:  Glide past the booths on a remote controlled pair of electric rollerblades that can go about 30 kilometers an hour. And check out an   autonomous wheelchair that hopes to soon transport travelers to their gate at the airport with a click of a button. JUSTIN GAGNON, VP OF SALES AND MARKETING, WHILL, INC.:  So it`s an autonomous wheelchair, so passenger will get into the chair, select what   gate they`re going to be going to and then the chair just takes them directly to that gate. They don`t need to drive it. They don`t need to tell   it where it needs to go. It`ll just take them right there. KINKADE:  Cars have become a big part of CES, with major automakers and others showcasing cutting edge advancements and nearly 300 exhibitors   expected. It will be one of the largest auto shows in the world. This year there will also be a lot of talk about web 3 and the Metaverse. So as with most of what you`ll find, it will take a while before all these   gadgets become widely available. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And for today`s 10 out of 10, we have a story that`s going to rocket your world. Check out this rocket ride high into the skies above. SpaceX,   the company revolutionizing space tech, shared this amazing time compressed video. The full clip is seconds and encompasses an eight and a half minute   orbital flight in space. The footage shot on January 3rd took place during the company`s 200th mission and shows the SpaceX Falcon 9 missions launched   from Cape Canaveral, Florida. All right. It is time for your word Wednesday. Follow me @CoyWire on Insta, Snapchat and TikTok and put your unique challenge word in the comment   section of one of my most recent posts. We`re going to choose one fun one and we`ll work it into tomorrow`s show. All right. Special shout out to Greenup County High School in Greenup, Kentucky, we see you. And we`re sending you all some Buffalove. Let`s keep this week going strong. I`m Coy Wire and this is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-01-12
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, everyone. Hope your Thursday is off to a fantastic start. I`m Omar Jimenez, a CNN national correspondent based in   New York, and I`m filling in for the one and only Coy rest of the week. We`re going to be covering extreme weather in California and looking at the potential impact of social media on teens.  But first, we`re going to start with news from the sky. The Federal Aviation Administration issued a short ground stop yesterday of all   domestic planes after there was an outage to a system that provides pilots with notices they need before flying. Now normal operations resumed later   yesterday morning, but delays from the ground stop continued into the day.  When we recorded our show on Wednesday, there were more than flight delays nationwide. The airports in Chicago, O`Hare International and Midway   International Airports, were especially impacted and they continued to have a ground stop for all inbound and outbound flights into the day on   Wednesday.  Now, the specific system experiencing the outage is called the notice to air missions which alerts it`s about closed runways equipment outages and   potential hazards along a flight route or at a location that could impact flight. The Biden administration and secretary of transportation, Pete   Buttigieg, are looking into what caused this disruption and if you saw over Christmas, Southwest Airlines canceled thousands of flights stranding tens   of thousands of travelers. The federal government is zeroing in on Southwest and their system to figure out how to prevent future issues like   these. All right. Ten-second trivia:  Name the third largest U.S. state whose state motto is eureka.  Is it Texas, Alaska, California, or Montana? And meaning "I have found it", eureka is the state motto of California. Up next, we`re headed to California where residents across the state are recovering from deadly storms that brought area rainfall totals 400 percent   to 600 percent above average. The storm meant heavy downpours and strong winds forcing thousands of evacuations. Response crews were responsible for   clearing flooded neighborhoods and crumbled roadways and at least people have died as a result.  Also, more than million people are under flood alerts this week and it`s not over yet. Another round of rain is on the way. It`s the first of four   more atmospheric river events. But what does that mean? Atmospheric rivers are long, narrow regions in the atmosphere that can transport moisture   thousands of miles. They`re expected to hit California in the next 10 days. So we`ll hear now from Kyung Lah, a national correspondent for CNN based in Los Angeles. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KYUNG LAH, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  During recent historic droughts, California prayed for rain, but not like this.  Two days of torrential rain, thunderstorms, and wind gusts are pounding California, causing mudslides, overflowing rivers, and triggering extensive   flooding.  LYNDA HOPKINS, SUPERVISOR, SONOMA COUNTY:  We`ve got trees down. We`ve got mudslides. We`ve got actually folks trapped in areas where we have major   road failures.  LAH:  At least 17 people have died as a result of the storms, after more than 18 inches of rain fell in parts of southern California. And high wind   advisories were issued on the central coast.  In San Francisco, a rare hailstorm in Haight-Ashbury. And throughout northern California --   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The rain hammered here pretty bad.  LAH:  -- the rushing river has flooded, following torrential downpours. Some residents have been without power for a week. In Santa Barbara County,   mass evacuations, after that storm saturated the ground. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It was pouring, the wind was whipping.  LAH:  Following years of extreme drought and fires.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  On the mountainside here, the debris started coming down, filling up to four feet or so. Pretty much buried the truck, and now   it`s starting to flow.  LAH:  More than 30 million people are under flood alerts, and across southern California, flash flooding trapped drivers. Firefighters here   rescued a motorist stranded in rushing waters. And mud and rockslides creating havoc for residents.  TYRONNE MCGRATH, RESIDENT, CASITAS SPRING:  A 800-pound rock just smashed the house, it just hit the wall and blew everything out.  LAH:  In northern California, the rain flooded roads, and vineyards, it almost doubled the snow pack in local mountains, offering hope that these   storms may somehow ease California`s historic drought.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We`re riding through it. Yeah, it could be a lot worse.  (END VIDEOTAPE) LAH (on camera):  It`s hard to think about drought when this is what southern California is dealing with. I`m standing on a roadway that goes   back behind, me you cannot see it because of all the debris on this road. This came from this mountain, this hillside five years ago burned in a   wildfire. And with all the rain and lack of vegetation, it all came down onto the street and into these yards.  The concern now is what happens in the upcoming days, with rain in the forecast.  JIMENEZ:  Up next, we`ll hear from Vanessa Yurkevich, a CNN business and politics reporter, who recently took a look at social media, specifically   TikTok`s impact on teen brains. Her reporting focuses on social media usage and the rate of depression especially among Gen Z users. Her research comes   as more than a dozen state governments have actually banned TikTok on government-issued devices and at least 22 states have taken some sort of   action on TikTok since 2020.  So let`s hear more about her research in the teens she speaks with on the ground. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS AND POLITICS REPORTER (voice-over):  In just five years, TikTok has amassed more than one billion global users. Eyeballs around the world glued to the endless content and viral videos. How long do you think you spend on TikTok every day? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Two to three hours. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Three to four hours. YURKEVICH:  But last month, the U.S. government, along with more than a dozen states, banned TikTok on most federal devices, citing national   security concerns over its Chinese parent company and the possibility it could pressure TikTok to hand over personal data.  There is no public evidence the Chinese government has done that but there is evidence of another risk, social media`s impact on mental health   particularly among Gen Z. DR. JEAN TWENGE, PSYCHOLOGIST:  Teen depression started to rise after 2012. So did self-harm. YURKEVICH:  Dr. Gene Twenge says as smartphones and social media grew, so did the rate of depression among teens, nearly doubling between 2004 and   2019. By that year, one in four U.S. teen girls had experienced clinical depression according to Twenge.  TWENGE:  What the algorithms trying to do is get people able to use the app for longer because that`s how the company makes more money. YURKEVICH:  TikTok in a statement said, quote, one of our most important commitments is supporting the safety and well-being of teens and we   recognize this work is never finished. We continue to focus on robust safety protections for our community while also empowering parents with   additional controls for their teen`s account through TikTok family pairing. Users of TikTok spent an average of an hour and a half a day on the app last year, more than any other social platform. What is it that keeps you scrolling even if you know maybe you`ve spent one two hours on it? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Once you watch the one video, you`re like, well, time to watch another. So you just keep doing it`s like a cycle you don`t   realize that the time is passing.  YURKEVICH:  That`s exactly what happened to Jerome Yankee (ph). UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I`ve definitely done all-nighters on TikTok before I had just been scrolling until the sun came up. YURKEVICH:  He says he lost sleep. His grades suffered. He lost touch with his friends. He lost his sense of self. In 2021, he deleted the app. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Getting disappointed by my own life is never something I want to be doing, especially when I have the power to change it but I   just wasn`t because I was spending hours on this app. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We have like a lot of cool resources that we give to our audience for free. YURKEVICH:  But Hannah Williams (ph) proves the positive side of TikTok, allowing her to create a business, Salary Transparent Street, providing   paid transparency to her new nearly million followers. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I think TikTok definitely helped just because they have such audience reach potential. YURKEVICH:  She hopes TikTok`s algorithm works in her favor. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Helping people in marginalized communities is the only reason I am doing this. It`s my entire mission. (END VIDEOTAPE) JIMENEZ:  Up next for today`s 10 out of 10, we`re showing you a volcano that`s erupt to no good. Yeah, even I`ve got to get in on the puns here.   Come on. Check out this time lapse video of the Kilauea volcano erupting in Hawaii the time lapse shows smoke and lava flowing all captured by the U.S.   geological survey there`s something truly so beautiful about this, so hot, the temperature. As you can see the lava cooling on the surface and forming   crustal plates it`s fascinating science happening right in front of our eyes. Last up on the show today, you know, we got to do it. I want to give a special shout out to Kennesaw Mountain High School in Kennesaw, Georgia.   That`s where I went. Go Mustangs. It`s been amazing hanging out with you all today. I`m Omar Jimenez. This is CNN 10. Have a great Thursday. END     

Date: 2023-01-13
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, everyone. I`m Omar Jimenez, filling in for Coy Wire today. We made it to Friday. It is Friday the 13th, but Friday   nonetheless. And you already know Fridays are amazing. This is CNN 10 and I`m so excited to be right here with you. Let`s finish this week strong. Now, we`re going to start today with the news in Washington. Classified documents belonging to President Joe Biden have been found in areas that   are not authorized to store classified files. The documents which have classified markings were found at two locations inside his home in   Wilmington, Delaware. Now, the files were found along with personal and political papers. The search for these documents started after similar classified docs were found   at a private office of the president back in November. Now, the paperwork is from his time as vice president in the Obama administration and Biden   said the documents were in a locked garage, that he was cooperating fully with the Department of Justice. Now some of the classified documents were top secret at the highest level. They were found within boxes that also contain unclassified papers that   fall under the Presidential Records Act, but key questions remain unanswered about the nature of the material, including who brought these   documents and what`s contained in them. Last year, more than 335 documents were found at former President Donald Trump`s Mar-a-Lago residents, 60 of   which were top secret. Republicans in Congress have accused Biden and the Justice Department of a double standard. Now, Donald Trump is under investigation for obstruction   of justice for refusing to return the documents or at least turn them over. As of Thursday, Attorney General Merrick Garland appointed a special   counsel to look into an official Biden documents probe. Now, we`re going to hear from CNN senior legal affairs correspondent Paula Reid who has more details. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  People know I take classified documents -- classified information seriously. PAUL REID, CNN SENIOR LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  President Biden Tuesday denied any prior knowledge of classified information   uncovered late last year in a space he used while working for the University of Pennsylvania before he became president. BIDEN:  We want this to be a gathering place. REID:  CNN has learned that among the items discovered were 10 classified documents dated between 2013 and 2016, including U.S. intelligence memos   and briefings materials that covered topics including Ukraine, Iran and the United Kingdom. CNN has reported that some of the materials included top   secret files. BIDEN:  I was briefed about this discovery and surprised to learn that there are any government records that were taken there to that office. REID:  They were found in three or four boxes that also contained unclassified papers that fall under the Presidential Records Act, a source   tells CNN. The vast majority of the boxes held personal Biden family documents, including materials about Beau Biden`s funeral arrangements and condolence   letters. The documents were discovered November 2nd, just six days before the midterm elections. Republicans pounced, launching investigations,   comparing the discovery to former President Trump`s retention of hundreds of classified documents and slamming Democrats. REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-CA), SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE:  They have to eat their words but the hypocrisy -- think about this -- they`ve gotten away with so   much for so long. This was discovered before the last election. REP. STEVE SCALISE (R-LA):  So if then Vice President Biden took classified documents with him and held them for years and criticized president --   former President Trump during that same time that he had those classified documents and only after it was uncovered did he turn him back. REID:  Even Trump`s estranged former vice president weighed in. MIKE PENCE, FORMER VICE PRESIDENT:  The handling of classified materials, a very serious issue for our nation and we ought to take it seriously. But   there ought to be equal treatment under the law. REID:  But Democrats are defending Biden against any such comparison. REP. PETE AGUILAR (D-CA):  What President Biden did was disclose this to the Archives, let law enforcement know. That is exactly the way that you   should handle this. (END VIDEOTAPE) JIMENEZ:  All right. Ten-second trivia: Which of these historic figures was given the name "Michael" when he was born in 1929? Martin Luther King, Jr., Michael Jordan, Mark Twain, Thurgood Marshall? Michael King Jr., that was the birth name of the civil rights leader born in Atlanta, Georgia. This Monday, we celebrate the birthday of Martin Luther King Jr. He was a Baptist minister and activist, and one of the most prominent leaders in the   civil rights movement. King called for civil and economic rights, and an end to racism in the United States. Monday is a national holiday and we   won`t have an episode of our show that day. So, CNN`s Dana Bash filed the following report on Dr. King`s legacy on the 50th anniversary of his death. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DANA BASH, CNN CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT:  This is unbelievable. You look up there, it says Mason Temple, this is where Martin Luther King 50   years ago gave his incredible Mountaintop speech. SUBTITLE:  April 2, 1968, King gave an emotional speech at the Mason Temple in Memphis. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., CIVIL RIGHTS LEADER:  I just want to do God`s will. And he has allowed me to go up to the mountain. And I`ve looked over.   And I`ve seen the Promised Land. I may not get there with you. But I want you to know tonight that we, as a people, will get to the Promised Land! BASH (voice-over):  That night, April 3rd, 1968, King checked in here, to Lorraine Motel. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  He gets dressed around 5:45 and he steps outside of the balcony of room 306, and he speaks to other guests that are in the   courtyard. SUBTITLE:  April 4, approximately 6:01 p.m., King was shot while standing on this motel balcony. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  At approximately 6:01, the final shot rings out. Dr. King lies mortally wounded on the balcony. He`s taken from the balcony to   St. Joseph`s Hospital and he`s pronounced dead at 7:05 p.m. SUBTITLE:  On the night of King`s assassination, President Lyndon B. Johnson addressed the nation. LYNDON B. JOHNSON, FORMER PRESIDENT: Shocked and saddened by the brutal slaying tonight of Dr. Martin Luther King. I ask every citizen to reject   the blind violence that has struck Dr. King, who lived by nonviolence. SUBTITLE:  Fifty years later, a bipartisan group of members of Congress visited the site where MLK Jr. was assassinated. REP. KEITH ELLISON (D), MINNESOTA:  To me, it`s like a return into something rudimentary and fundamental. I mean, this is where Martin Luther   King breathed his last breath. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  In honor of, Lorraine Hotel decided not to recheck this room out in Dr. King`s honor and remembrance. BASH:  This is exactly how it was left? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It was left this way. BASH:  Right there when it all happened, King`s partner and dear friend, Reverend Ralph Abernathy, his wife Juanita on this pilgrimage 50 years   later. The night that Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated, you were with his widow. JUANITA ABERNATHY, FRIEND OF KING FAMILY:  Yes. BASH:  Tell me about that. ABERNATHY:  I told Coretta, I said, well, I`ll meet you in your house, and I stayed there that night with her --   BASH:  So, did you sleep with her in her bed to comfort her? ABERNATHY:  Yes, right? BASH:  The night that her husband was killed? ABERNATHY:  The night that he died, I slept on his side of the bed and my little children were there with her children. (SINGING) BASH:  Tell me how you`re feeling. I was watching you standing here. REP. JOHN LEWIS (D), GEORGIA:  Well, you know, it`s very emotional to come here. I was not here that evening. He changed my life.  He inspired me to stand up, to speak up and to never give up. And when he died, I think something died in all of us. (END VIDEOTAPE) JIMENEZ:  And lastly, we can`t go until we do it, I want to give a special shout-out to Western Middle School in Auburn, Michigan. It`s been such a pleasure getting to host CNN 10 for all of you. The show meant a lot to me when I was in high school. My first ever interaction with   CNN was actually visiting this program and so it`s a real full circle moment for me to be back here hosting for all of you. Hope your week was awesome. Have a great weekend and I hope to see you soon. END     

Date: 2023-01-17
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. Terrific Tuesday to you. I hope you had a wonderful weekend and a marvelous Martin Luther King Jr. Day   yesterday. I am back. My voice mostly back. Thanks for all the love and well wishes on my Instagram, Snapchat and TikTok. And special thanks to the Army JROTC program at Klein Cain High School in Klein, Texas. The Hurricane Battalion sent this lovely letter, and they   also sent their school colors and their pride in the form of this tie. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, and we start with the dilemma over the rapidly approaching debt ceiling for the United States government. What`s the debt ceiling? It`s the limit the total amount of money that the U.S. government has authorized to borrow to meet its existing legal   obligations, which include Social Security, Medicare benefits, military salaries, interest on national debt and tax refunds. That credit limit   currently sits at about $31.3 trillion. Now, the debt ceiling can be raised, and it has been for decades hits the massive current debt. It was last raised in December of 2021, and is   expected to last until at least July of this year. Well, this has set up a major battle on Capitol Hill between the Republican and Democratic Parties.   Can the two sides agree to terms on which the debt ceiling could be raised again? Here`s CNN anchor and chief business correspondent Christine Romans with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY):  We`d like to get a debt ceiling done in this work period. KARINE JEAN-PIERRE, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY:  So, when it comes to the debt ceiling, it should not -- it should not be used or never be a matter   of political brinksmanship. JANET YELLEN, SECRETARY OF TREASURY:  It`s really up to Congress to raise the debt ceiling. CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  Ah, the debt ceiling, the eternal Washington food fight. So what is it? And why is it so   contentious? The debt ceiling is the legal limit set by Congress on how much money America can borrow. Because the U.S. spends more than it takes in, it   borrows to make up the difference. The debt ceiling caps how much. The problem is, it`s not enough. So, every once in a while, Congress needs to raise it. If it doesn`t, the Treasury Department won`t be able to pay   all the country`s bills in full and on time. Now the Treasury does have a little wiggle room before it gets to that point, what it calls extraordinary measures to move money around. But   eventually, the accounting tricks run out and there`s no more avoiding the debt ceiling. That`s when the fireworks usually break out. REP. MIKE LAWLER (R-NY):  Our debt is out of control. I mean, we`re talking about over $30 trillion. SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D-MA):  Me? I get rid of the debt ceiling altogether. It serves no function except to create leverage. REP. DAN CRENSHAW (R-TX):  Look, they`re difficult political times. Nobody likes them but they are necessary evils in a sense because it`s the only   time that you can actually negotiate ways to get our budget under control. ROMANS:  Now, many say raising the debt ceiling is just a license to spend more money and grow the debt but it`s not really raising the debt ceiling   just lets treasury pay the bills America already owes. JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  There`s nothing to do with any new spending. ROMANS:  If Congress really wants to clamp down on debt, it has to do it a lot earlier like before passing spending bills or tax cuts, both of which   can add to deficits. Failing to raise the debt ceiling won`t keep a lid on debt. It just risks the U.S. defaulting on its obligations something that   could forever stain America`s global reputation. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: In 2005, the British travel company used an unscientific formula to determine what kind of day of the year? Best for shopping, the most depressing, the shortest, or the worst for traffic? Blue Monday as they called it was supposed to indicate the most depressing day of the year and it typically fell on the third Monday in January. Well, yesterday was the third Monday in January and while Blue Monday is a myth, some still use the marker to predict when travel purchases may peak   as people are looking to escape the cold temperatures for a sunny vacation destination. The winter blues though, those can be very real. Ever hear of seasonal affective disorder? Our Dr. Sanjay Gupta tells us all about it and gives us some tips on how to make the most of the winter months and to help us find our happy place amid   the wintertime grind. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Even if you love the cold and winter sports, you`ve got to admit, this has felt   like a long winter. At least 12 million Americans suffer from something known as seasonal affective disorder or SAD, numbers probably even higher   than that. Longer nights, shorter days, all of that leads to a chemical imbalance in the brain. What happens is your serotonin levels are down and melatonin,   which makes you sleepy, that`s up. To make sense, symptoms can be mild or severe, you can get fatigue, lack of energy over sleeping, difficulty concentrating, and also cravings for food   that cause weight gain. That probably sounds familiar as well. Diet and exercise can always help. Also, get outside as much as you can. You can also get a specialty designed light box. You just sit there and   stare at it for a while each day or at least put it on your desk, the point is you can get a boost of more natural light. Another tidbit, find things that bring you joy -- open up the blinds in your house, play some of your favorite music, and be with your family.   Laughter and togetherness are always great therapy for the winter blues. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Up next, Jakarta, the capital city of Indonesia, is sinking into the ocean. So, the government of Indonesia has decided to build a completely   new capital city in a completely different location. But at what cost? Aside from the estimated billion-dollar price tag for the futuristic smart city that the government officials are calling the world`s most   sustainable, critics say that the impact on the wildlife, ecosystem and indigenous people could be devastating. More now from CNN international correspondent Kristie Lou Stout. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIE LOU STOUT, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Jakarta is a sinking city, scientists say the sprawling capital of Indonesia, home   to more than 10 million people is dropping below sea level at alarming rates, mainly due to excessive groundwater extraction. The government of Indonesia has a plan, to carve a new capital city called Nusantara, out of the dense jungles of eastern Borneo. At an estimated cost   of more than $30 billion, it`s being designed as a futuristic smart city and touted by government officials as the world`s most sustainable. JOKO WIDODO, INDONESIAN PRESIDENT (through translator):  The development of the new capital has to become a move towards building cities that are   healthy, efficient and productive, that are designed to be a place where the people are close from any destination, where they can bike and walk   everywhere because there are zero emissions. STOUT:  Officials describe the new capital as a sort of Garden of Eden, built along the contours of the natural landscape. Nusantara is expected to be completed in 2045, and the government says it will be more than three and a half times the size of Singapore and home to   nearly 2 million people. Officials and developers claim it will have minimal impact on surrounding rainforests that are some of the oldest in   the world. SOFIAN SIBARANI, ARCHITECT:  We have in our -- in our guidelines is all the building, especially key buildings or government building needs to be   green, green building. It needs to be sensitive to the environment. It`s also futuristic. It`s a future -- smart city, smart government, smart   society, smart infrastructure. STOUT:  But some environmentalists disagree, warning of a potential habitat destruction. AGUS BEI, MANGROVE ACTIVIST (through translator):  The area is unique with its natural habitats and native species, and if its mangrove forests are   destroyed, all the native species will be gone, too, and the next generations can only hear the stories about the species because they don`t   exist anymore. STOUT:  There is another concern about the project: the potential displacement of indigenous tribes. SIBUKDIN, BALIK TRIBE LEADER (through translator):  The land and the farms are inherited from our ancestors. The land is the biggest asset of our   tribe. For us, the farm is the source of life. If our land is taken away, how could we farm? How could we live? STOUT:  To that, the government has said it will compensate landowners, and there are also some critics who say Indonesia should concentrate on fixing   the problems in Jakarta arguing millions of residents will remain in the current capital struggling to cope with pollution traffic and worsening   floods. DORINA POJANI, UNIVERSITY OF QUEENSLAND:  Will it relieve congestion in Jakarta? Will it make whoever is left behind in Jakarta get to live a bit   better? Well, I don`t think so. STOUT:  As construction ramps up this year, many questions remain. But one thing is clear the road to creating Nusantara, Indonesia`s shining city on   a hill, will likely be an uphill climb. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right. Today`s 10 out of 10 is pandastic. Some baby pandas were having a tough time getting their bearings out of giant panda research and   breeding habitat in southwest China. These cute cubs were tumbling, stumbling and rumbling. For all you teachers out there with toddlers or any   of you with baby brothers or sisters, you know exactly the type of stress these researchers were feeling. My goodness. Pandemonium. All right. Now, shout out time. This one goes out to Washington middle school in Miles City, Montana. Rise up. I leave you with words of motivation today, one of my favorite Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. quotes in honor of yesterday`s national holiday. If you can`t fly, then run. If you can`t run, then walk. If you can`t walk, then crawl, but whatever you do, you have to keep moving forward. Keep moving forward y`all. No matter what you`re going through, you`ll come out through on the other side a little bit stronger. I`m Coy Wire. This is   CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-01-18
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. Today is January 18th, National Thesaurus Day, and we are happy, merry, mirthful, elated,   ecstatic, enthusiastic, geeked up, on cloud nine, and tickled pink to be part of your day for the best 10 minutes in news. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. We have an awesome show for you today, so let`s get going. We start by getting caught up on what`s happening in the economy, specifically the job market. This past year, rising inflation and high   interest rates made some economists fearful of a potential recession which among other things would make it difficult for people to find jobs. But in   2022, the labor market held steady with the economy adding more new jobs than many people expected. But what about 2023. Let`s take 10 to break it down by the numbers. In November, there were 10.46 million available jobs in the United States, and while that was slightly fewer than the 10.51 million jobs available in   October, there were still 1.7 job openings for each job seeker. Also, the Great Resignation is not over. Americans quit 4.2 million jobs and that figure was 2.6 million prior to the pandemic. We`ll hear now from CNN business anchor and chief business correspondent Christine Romans who`s with us to contextualize all the hows and whys of   the current job market, especially in its uh recent headlines of all the layoffs that are happening across so many industries. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  It seems like every day brings another round of layoff announcements, especially in tech.   Amazon, Meta, Twitter, Salesforce, Lyft, all among the companies cutting jobs. Media companies are laying off workers, too. Even consumer giants   like Walmart and Pepsi are reportedly trimming staff. At the same time, the overall job market though is in desperate need of workers. There are more than 10 million job openings in the United States,   about 3 million more than before the pandemic. Weekly unemployment claims are low and hiring remains robust. So, what`s really going on in the job market? High profile headlines about tech layoffs don`t tell the whole story. The industry hired aggressively   during the pandemic and now, it`s scaling back. NELA RICHARDSON, CHIEF ECONOMIST, ADP RESEARCH INSTITUTE:  It`s important to note that tech is a very small percentage, 2 percent, of the overall   labor market. So, tech is not a bellwether for the real economy or for the labor market. ROMANS:  Other sectors like leisure and hospitality and healthcare are much bigger, and they`re still adding jobs. Those companies want to hang on to   their workers, not fire them. The question now is whether the job market can stay strong. The Federal Reserve is raising interest rates to slow the   economy, as it tries to fight inflation, and the Fed chief himself admits that`s going to cost jobs. JEROME POWELL, CHAIRMAN, FEDERAL RESERVE:  There will be some softening in labor market conditions, and I wish there were a completely painless way to   restore price stability. There isn`t, and this is the best we can do. ROMANS:  For Powell, slaying the inflation dragon is the priority even if it means losing jobs. The Fed predicts the unemployment rate will rise to   4.6 percent by the end of the year. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Up next, heroes don`t always wear capes. We`re getting a rare behind-the-scenes look into health and safety measures that recently saved   an NFL player`s life. Damar Hamlin of the Buffalo Bills suffered cardiac arrest in the middle of a game two weeks ago. And within seconds, medical   professionals, heroes were at his side. Our Dr. Sanjay Gupta takes us to meet the NFL`s chief medical officer for a detailed look at all the precautions taken, all the product protocols that   are in place to protect players in America`s most popular sport. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Dr. Allen Sills is the chief medical officer of the NFL. He`s giving me a sideline   view of the preparedness that goes into every game day. And once you see this, you`ll probably never watch a game the same way again. You may have missed this pop-up blue tent. It`s on every sideline. DR. ALLEN SILLS, CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER, NFL:  It`s like a medical exam room. We`ve kind of made this a medical space, even in the middle of a very   busy stadium. It`s just so much easier to do things in here because like I said, everybody is just more relaxed. You don`t have the cameras. You don`t   have the fans. GUPTA:  Or this, the injury review screen. SILLS:  So, we can be down here on the sideline and the spotter`s booth, if they`ve seen an injury video, they`ll queue it up for us, put on the video   exactly what we need to see. We can talk to them. GUPTA:  The spotter`s booth, they are the eyes in the sky. Hey. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Welcome, welcome. GUPTA:  Thank you. SILLS:  This is another part of our game day medical preparations. The real goal of this booth is to help spot any injuries or illnesses on the field. It can be hard to see the whole field from down there. GUPTA:  Right. SILLS:  Probably, to me, one of the most unique things in sports is the spotter can directly communicate down to the referee. These people can stop   the game. SUE STANLEY-GREEN, CERTIFIED ATHLETIC TRAINER SPOTTER:  So, we watch every -- every play, probably minimally four times, and then we`ll go back and   watch it again. And so, you know, we just want to make sure we don`t miss anything. SILLS:  It`s always about the right people, the right plan and the right equipment. We have almost 30 medical professionals and everyone has a job   to do. GUPTA:  ER doctors, orthopedic surgeons, neurosurgeons, paramedics, X-ray techs and air-way specialists, like Dr. Justin Deaton. DR. JUSTIN DEATON, NFL AIRWAY MANAGEMENT PHYSICIAN:  So, this is the bag that I carry, and it`s got a number of things that we could use. The first   thing is a portable video laryngoscope. We have a portable ultrasound machine that we can use, and we also have the ability to perform surgical   airways. I really have all the resources available here that I would have in an emergency room. GUPTA:  What`s the biggest challenge of that scenario versus being in an emergency room? DEATON:  Well, the biggest challenge is the external environment and the chaos of the situation. When you have a larger than average size person   that`s lying flat on the ground and not able to be elevated to a certain level with extra equipment, plus cameras and other people around, those are   really the things that make -- make it more difficult to manage. GUPTA:  How does everyone know you`re the guy in charge? DEATON:  I wear a red hat on the sideline. But that signifies me as the emergency physician, the airway physician, so even the other team knows   when I come out what my role is. DR. KEVIN KAPLAN, HEAD TEAM PHYSICIAN, JAGUARS:  If a player needs to get taken off of the field, the ambulance is going to be in the tunnel to your   right. If you need anything at all, we`ll be out there for you guys if you need us. Otherwise, I hope we have a safe and healthy game. Good luck. GUPTA:  Keep in mind, the medical team was able to get to Damar Hamlin within ten seconds. And speed really matters here. Every additional minute   that someone in cardiac arrest goes without CPR, mortality goes up by up to 10 percent. SILLS:  This is a process that`s in place for every single game and we train in the offseason, and just like the players train and practice, we do   as well. So, I have tremendous confidence, but you always want to see a game with no injuries, and you want everyone to, frankly, be bored on the   medical side. That`s a good game from my standpoint. GUPTA:  I hear you. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Yakutsk, widely considered the coldest city on the planet, is located in what country? Canada, Russia, Norway or Mongolia? Located in the Russian province of Siberia, temperatures in Yakutsk have reached minus 58 degrees Fahrenheit this week. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANASTASIA GRUZDEVA, LOCAL RESIDENT (translated):  I have two mittens, two scarves. Warm shoes is a must. And you need to cover your head. SUBTITLE:  The temperature in Yakutsk, Siberia has dropped to -50 degrees Celsius. Residents of the city, known as one of the coldest on Earth, shared how they`re managing the frost. GRUZDEVA:  Also, warm trousers, because the biggest heat loss is in the leg area. If your legs are cold, you are cold. REPORTER (translated):  Apart from dressing up warm, any other life hacks? NURGUSUN STAROSTINA, FISH SELLER (translated):  No, just dress warmly, in layers. Like a cabbage. ALYONA ZAITSEVA, FISH SELLER (translated):  We are freezing. But thanks to the customers we are on the move, so we warm up this way. TRANSLATED:  The mining city in Russia`s Far East is experiencing an abnormally long cold snap but temperatures regularly drop below minus 40. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And for today`s 10 out of 10 story, we`re taking a trip to Wisconsin`s highway 35 to meet Jeffrey the giant snowman. And Jeffrey`s   snow joke. He`s 58 feet tall. That`s more than four stories high. Drivers there are trying to keep their cool but Jeffrey freezes traffic to a halt with tons of people coming from hours away to get a glimpse and to   take selfies with them -- an incredible feat by Craig Carlson and his two sons Beau and Hunter. They named Jeffrey the snowman after a loved one that   passed away. Now that just melts my heart. All right. You already know what time it is. West Milwaukee Intermediate School in Milwaukee Wisconsin, we see you. Thanks for subscribing and   commenting on our CNN YouTube channel. Before we go, it`s #YourWordWednesday. So put your challenge word in the comment section of my most recent post @CoyWire on Insta, Snapchat and   TikTok, and we`re going to choose one fun word to work into tomorrow`s show. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-01-19
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Welcome to CNN 10 and happy Friday Eve. It`s your boy Coy. And the challenge words from your #YourWordWednesday were awesome, and this week ends with an OUS. It means beautiful. So, see if you can catch it. All right. We got a rendezvous with the news starting now and we begin in China, the most populated country on the planet. But for the first time in   years, it recorded a population decline the last time deaths outnumbered births in China was during a great famine in 1961. A huge population has enabled China to produce a huge cost competitive workforce catapulting their economy`s growth and this current population   decline though is happening at the same time China saw its worst annual economic performance in half a century, and it`s despite the government   encouraging people to have more children. So, what could this mean for the global superpower? Well, China`s elderly population currently makes up a fifth of its 1.4 billion people, with the number expanding to 280 million. And over the next   several decades the number of people aged 65 and above is projected to surpass China`s working age population and that would mean further   impending troubles potentially for China`s economy and their ability to grow. More now from CNN international correspondent Marc Stewart on what else this could mean for China and the global economy. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MARC STEWART, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  The headline is significant. China`s population shrank last year, the first time this has   happened in more than 60 years, a decline of about 850,000 people. Let`s break this down and look at some of the reasons why. First, priorities are changing. We`re getting married later and some young people are not having children at all. In addition, Beijing held a   controversial one-child policy until 2015, but it was relaxed because of concerns about the population. In 2021, three children were then allowed,   and a plan was released to strengthen maternity leave and to offer tax deductions. In addition to all of this, the cost of living in China is high, so is education. And then there`s just general economic uncertainty, that can all   impact decision making. So, what are the takeaways from this? The United Nations is predicting India will surpass China to become the most populated country this year. And then there are the economic   implications. This means an aging workforce without a pipeline into the future that could impact productivity and in turn economic success. Chinese leader Xi Jinping has raised these demographic challenges saying boosting birth rates and addressing the cost of raising a child will be   part of future policy. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which of these words comes from a Latin term meaning bird? Auto, aerial, avian, or able? Avian is your answer here. It can be traced all the way back to a Latin word avis meaning bird. Did you know there`s currently an egg shortage and now the prices of eggs are no yolk? One of the culprits is an outbreak of the avian flu, a virus   mostly affecting birds. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the average price for a dozen eggs in California is more than seven bucks. It was just $2.35 a year   ago. And one of my CNN teammates Maya in New York City, she spent $12 on a dozen eggs yesterday. That`s a dollar per egg y`all. At these prices, I`m not sure those omelettes are all they`re cracked up to be. Here`s CNN business and politics correspondent Vanessa Yurkevich who tells us exactly what`s causing the shortage and these super high prices. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  In chilly Palmer, Alaska, the demand for chickens and their eggs is heating   up. DOON DYER, OWNER, POLARIS FARM:  I was already sold out even before the egg shortage. I was - I was selling everything I had. YURKEVICH:  If you`ve been to the grocery store recently, you may have noticed fewer eggs and higher prices, up about 11 percent last month on   average from November, up nearly 60 percent in the last year. $11.49 for a dozen eggs in New York, $10.99 in Hawaii. SHANTEL ROLDAN, MANOA, HI RESIDENT:  I think it`s ridiculous for it to be that much. YURKEVICH:  The highly pathogenic avian influenza, or avian flu, is largely to blame. Nearly 58 million birds and climbing have died across 47 states   in the last year, a result of the deadly virus. Wild birds can carry the disease and spread it to domestic flocks when they migrate. CHELSEA CARRIGAN, OWNER, RED BARN FARM:  One wild bird coming into their chicken run and the next thing you know, 10 birds, 20 birds, 30 birds,   they`re just dropping dead. YURKEVICH:  Some states now recommending that all poultry be maintained indoors. Poultry and bird shows, canceled. And biosecurity around chickens,   strictly enforced. SARAH SCHNEIDER, OWNER, EGG SHOP:  The avian flu is serious. YURKEVICH:  Egg Shop, with two cafes in New York City, is struggling with prices on their main ingredient. The fall migration of wild birds sent   avian flu cases spiking again. SCHNEIDER:  We go through 7,000 to 9,000 eggs a week. So, it`s a significant amount of eggs. And in the last couple weeks they`ve jumped as   high as 60 percent. YURKEVICH:  How have you been able to absorb the high price increases of eggs? SCHNEIDER:  Unfortunately, we have raised all of our prices about 10 percent on our menu items. YURKEVICH:  For some, the increased cost is too much. Baked after Dark bakery in Nebraska will close its doors this weekend. STACEY JOHNSON, OWNER, BAKED AFTER DARK:  I think about what our family could afford to pay for a cookie. I take that into consideration. We can`t   charge $5 a cookie. YURKEVICH:  The ripple effect goes beyond restaurants and bakeries. Take a look around the grocery store. Items that use eggs, like mayonnaise, are up   11.8 percent in the last year. ANGELO PULEO, SUPERVISOR, MORTON WILLIAMS SUPERMARKETS:  From the flu to the increases in inflation, all combined together with the shortage, it is   the perfect storm. VERA NEWHOUSE, NYC SHOPPER:  And I definitely have seen the prices shoot up recently. YURKEVICH:  Does that stop you from making the purchase? NEWHOUSE:  No, not at all. I`m just buying things to make a chicken cutlet. And you need eggs as the basis for that too. It`s one of the reasons why there`s no way not to   purchase them. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Up next, we`re headed to Australia where every year in the Great Barrier Reef, corals spawn following a full moon. This is crucial because   scientists said that rising temperatures have led to bleaching, and more than percent of the reefs surveyed last year. Coral that was once vibrant   with pulchritudinous colors they`re now colorless. Well, that does not mean though that the coral is dead just yet and a new technique just might bring   the beauty back. Let`s head down under the waves Down Under to learn more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SUBTITLE:  For the past three years, researchers have used the annual spawning to test a restoration method called "coral seeding". CATHIE PAGE, AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTE OF MARINE SCIENCE:  Coral spawning is the once in a year opportunity to replenish. So, it`s a really valuable time   for the reef but also a really important time for us to do our research. We allow coral lobby to settle onto 3D printed structures that we then deploy to the reef, and it`s an opportunity for us to boost the number of   very young corals on the reef and potentially boost rates of recovery on those reefs in the future. They have some protective features that might stop fish from biting them or algae from over growing them or sediment from settling on them. SUBTITLE:  So far, the technique has exceeded expectations. PAGE:  We`re building year on year on our research in this area, trialing different designs one year and then building on those in the next. SUBTITLE:  The scientists seeded hundreds of corals during the reef`s 2022 mass spawning. They hope their research will help restore reefs in Australia and eventually worldwide. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a mirrored mirage and a camouflaged crib in Joshua Tree National Park. They call it the invisible   house, 5,000 square feet of sleek design, mirrored on all sides blending into the topography like a chameleon, by reflecting the desert landscape   and skies almost playing tricks on your eyes. But the inside, look at this, look at these views. From almost every single room in the house, absolutely stunning. And that`s not all, there`s a   swimming pool inside that`s 100 feet long. The invisible house has been a popular rental for lots of celebrities but now this southern California   home can be all yours for a cool $18 million. Speaking of California, let`s stay right there for our shout out today. Truckee High School in Truckee, California, we see you. And we hope you and   everyone watching around the world can be a reflection of all that`s beautiful or pulchritudinous in this world. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10, and I`ll see you tomorrow. END     

Date: 2023-01-20
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. We made it. The weekend is upon us, and you already know Friday`s rock. I`m Coy. This is CNN, and we   are pumped to be right here to finish this week`s strong with you. Let`s start today by heading to Peru, the third largest country in south America after Brazil and Argentina is made up of a variety of landscapes   from mountains to beaches. The multicultural nation considered the archaeological capital of South America has a population of million people. But recently, Peru is seeing   some of its worst political violence in decades. It started last month with the removal of its former president and the protests have been so intense   that people have lost their lives amid the violent clashes. The citizens aren`t just protesting the most recent change in government. They`re also upset about the political system that`s governed the -- for   the last 20 years. The people at the center of the protests are from the Andean regions, which are more rural and remote, away from big cities. Many   experts say the protests illustrate deep divisions within this diverse country. More now from Stefano Pozzebon reporting on this story for CNN International. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) STEFANO POZZEBON, CNN INTERNATIONAL:  Peru is seeing some of its worst violence in recent decades after the ousting of former President Pedro   Castillo has led to protesters throughout the country to call for political change, particularly in the south where dozens of people have been killed   in clashes with the police. But these protests are about so much more than former President Castillo. Peru has been experiencing a deep political crisis for years. The current   president, Dina Boluarte, is the sixth head of state in less than five years and even if she were to go like some of the protesters are now   demanding a solution to the crisis is hard to see. Both the presidency and Congress are widely discredited and are perceived as corrupted institutions. Only 21 percent of Peruvians said that they are   satisfied with Democratic rule in the 2021 poll by LAPOP, a survey research laboratory at Vanderbilt University. And on one in two Peruvians, I think   that the military takeover is justified when corruption is high. Even though the country has experienced an economic boom in recent years, the expectations of better living conditions have not been fulfilled.   During the COVID-19 pandemic, Peru has recorded the highest per capita death toll in the world and according to the United Nations, over half of   the population lack access to enough food. Many people simply think that the system is not working for them. Boluarte has so far resisted calls for early general elections and has declared a state of emergency in the areas of the country that have been   most affected by the protest. The attorney general has opened an inquiry into Boluarte`s handling of the unrest, and it`s hard to predict how the   situation will be in the near future. However, even if khan were to be restored in Peru, the root causes of this crisis still need to be   addressed. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia of the three major mountain ranges in the United States, which is considered the oldest? Rocky Mountains, Appalachian Mountains or the Sierra Nevada? Appalachian Mountains is your answer here, home to America`s longest hiking-only trail they`re thought to have been formed around 480 million   years ago. Let`s go to the Appalachia Region now, home to more than 25 million Americans. The area extending from Mississippi to New York, known for its   mountain terrain, relies heavily on the mining, forestry and agricultural industries. Recently though, a new industry has become a concern for some   residents, the crypto mining industry, and mostly the noise pollution it creates. We`ll hear now from CNN chief climate correspondent Bill Weir who recently traveled to Murphy, North Carolina, to speak with residents who pushed back   when the sound of silence was replaced with the sound of cryptocurrency. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  This is the sound of Green Mountain Farm. Certified by Quiet Parks International as one of   the most peaceful spots in North Carolina. Thanks to their rare local enforcement of laws against noise pollution. Meanwhile, about 90 minutes away, beautiful Cherokee County sounds like this. It is stack upon stack of computer servers, and the fans needed to   cool them. This is what`s known as a crypto mine. And it makes the sound of people in San Francisco trying to make virtual money. WEIR:  How do you describe that noise? MIKE LUGIEWICZ, MURPHY RESIDENT:  We`re probably sitting at probably 65 decibels right now. When it`s at about 75, 80 decibels, I`d say a jet   engine. A jet engine that never leaves. WEIR:  Sixteen months after the mine fired up without warning, Mike Lugiewicz put his house up for sale in frustration. TOM LASH (ph), MURPHY RESIDENT:  There would be turkeys out in the field and deer by the hundreds. WEIR:  Yes. LASH:  You don`t have that anymore. WEIR:  While Tom Lash (ph) misses the wildlife -- PHYLLIS CANTRELL, MURPHY RESIDENT:  You don`t sleep at night. WEIR:  -- Phyllis Cantrell says she feels trapped. CANTRELL:  You can actually lay your head on the pillow and hear it hum up through the walls. WEIR:  No way. Have you thought about moving? CANTRELL:  We`re 73 years old. Where are we going to go? WEIR:  Imagine a game where the dice have a billion sides and the first person to roll a ten wins. That is essentially crypto mining. And to play   that games these days, you need computers, thousands of computers running 24/7, 365. And after China outlawed crypto currency and crypto mining, more and more mines like this began popping up in Appalachia, places where the power is   cheap, and the regulations are either nonexistent or unenforced. The mine has upended local politics. JUDY STINES, MURPHY RESIDENT:  I like to be behind the scenes, and I - I like to stir the pot. And I knew that we -- we needed to win an election. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Forget the noise --   WEIR:  Outrage over the mine helped flip the balance of power in November`s county election. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Homegrown U.S. Senator Thom Tillis. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I do. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Congratulations. WEIR:  With the new board of commissioners now asking for federal help in ending American crypto mining. When asked over LinkedIn for reaction, Chandler Song, one of the mine`s co- owners wrote, oh, boy, they wanted us so bad a year ago. As for the proposed ban, it is unconstitutional to say the least. Song and his crypto mining co-founder made Forbes 30 under 30 list a few years ago and recently claimed quarterly revenues of more than $20 million.   But when asked follow-up questions, Song went silent. His mine in Murphy has not, so far. But the county attorney is looking for a legal way to shut it down. A cautionary reminder that the next time you   hear a place as peaceful as Green Mountain Farm --   UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  You`re playing roulette with their lives. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It`s torture. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Come on. WEIR:  -- chances are someone got loud and fought for it. (END VIDEOTAPE) WEIR:  And for today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, an artist that can recreate almost exact replicas of iconic marble sculptures. Here`s the   thing, the artist is a robot, Italian tech company Robotor created a 13- foot-tall stone chisel in Michelangelo Bernini wannabe that`s recreating a famous 19th century Italian sculpture here. The 3D scans are used to   analyze, assess and then carve away. The company says recreations are 99 percent faithful to the original. One thing`s for sure though, they`ll   never completely be able to replicate the human touch. This brings to mind a thought I`d like to leave you with this week the type of person you`ll become isn`t determined by what you do, but how you do it.   Carry love, peace and happiness with you into this weekend. And shout-out to Roland-Story Middle School in Roland, Iowa. Go Norseman! Remember, you are all more powerful than you know. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10.   It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2023-01-23
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello and happy Monday. I hope you had an awesome weekend and you`re ready to start this week strong.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10 and I`m in Buffalo, New York, for yesterday`s NFL playoff action. We start today, though, with news from the White House. On Friday, FBI investigators found more classified material while conducting a search of   President Biden`s Wilmington, Delaware home. This comes two weeks after it was first reported that classified documents were found at Biden`s private   office and then later again at his home in Delaware.  Also on Thursday, President Biden said there was nothing more to this a special counsel investigation has been appointed to look into the situation   and here`s why. According to the Presidential Records Act, presidential records belong to the government and must be given to the National Archives   at the end of a president`s term. The documents in this case date back to win then Vice President Biden worked for the Obama administration. After the discovery of the documents, the president`s lawyers say they`ve given the documents to the government and are fully cooperating with the   National Archives.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  We`re fully cooperating looking forward to getting this resolved quickly. I think you`re going to find   there`s nothing there. I have no regrets. I`m following what the lawyers have told me they want me to do. It`s exactly what we`re doing. There`s no   there there.  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  This situation draws comparison to former President Donald Trump who is also under legal scrutiny for the scoring of classified documents at his   home in Florida.  More now from CNN White House correspondent Jeremy Diamond. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Six more classified documents have been found at President Biden`s Wilmington, Delaware   residents. This time, they were found by FBI agents who were searching President Biden`s home with the president`s permission, the permission of   his legal team. And with the supervision of a personal attorney to the president as well as a representative of the White House counsel`s office. Now, all of this was revealed on Saturday night by Bob Bauer, the president`s personal attorney who confirms that the FBI carried out a   nearly 13-hour search of the president`s Wilmington residence on Friday from 9:45 in the morning until around 10:30 at night. And those six   documents being found of following an exhaustive search of the president`s residence, the entire residence, we`re told, they were given access to.   Instead, this was done with the permission and the cooperation of President Biden`s legal team.  But nonetheless, this is the fifth time in the last two weeks that we have learned of classified documents being found initially, it was, of course,   at the president`s former office in Washington for the Penn Biden Center. And then, of course, there was the discovery of documents at the   President`s Wilmington residence, and additional documents have since been discovered at that home or revealed since then. And that drip, drip, drip has certainly been problematic for a White House that has been insisting as the president did just days before this   revelation, that there is no there there, insisting that he was surprised by the revelation of these documents and certainly a president who`s trying   to get past all this who hopes that the special counsel can do its work quietly, and ultimately exonerate him. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia:  Which of these terms refers to a group of chickens? Brood, pod, caravan, or troop? Brood is your answer here, though flock and peep are also terms used to describe a group of chickens. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  As we mentioned last week, an outbreak of the avian flu a virus affecting mostly birds is causing an egg shortage and it`s a big reason why   egg prices have surged. Well, I`m going to let you know about one solution some folks have found, more and more people are getting their yolks in   their own backyard.  Having your own flock of chickens may be an excellent way to save some money, but some people are questioning the safety aspect and are being   critical of the noise it can make for their neighbors. CNN correspondent Gabe Cohen has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) GABE COHEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Every morning, Cassidy O`Donnell fetches a feast from her Pennsylvania yard. Fresh eggs from eight   chickens, an idea she hatched last spring, as food prices surged.  CASSIDY O`DONNELL, CHICKEN OWNER:  We`ve seen that the price of eggs have gone up quite a bit. Now they`ve gotten even more expensive. So, grateful   for the decision that we made a year ago.  COHEN:  The price of eggs is up a rotten 60 percent in a year, largely driven by a deadly avian flu outbreak across 47 states that`s left some   store shelves empty, inspiring more Americans to invest in backyard chickens, hoping to save some scratch.  MIKE HIGMAN, OWNER, MY PET CHICKEN:  What we`re seeing right now is a wake up call from a lot of our customers.  COHEN:  Mike Higman owns My Pet Chicken, which sells chicken supplies for backyard flocks. He says business is booming, up 80 percent this month,   compared to a year ago.  MIKE HIGMAN, OWNER, MY PET CHICKEN:  We`re looking at record numbers, people are saying that prices of eggs are going up in stores, and that   they`re out of stock. This people that are concerned with what things are going to look like for food prices and food availability over the next 12   months.  COHEN:  Rene Ruiz built this coop last May, and purchased three chickens, with eight more just hatched, concerned with the cost of feeding his family   of five.  RENE RUIZ, CHICKEN OWNER:  I just don`t think it`s sustainable for people to continue to just pay what they`re being asked to pay in the supermarket,   without having an alternative, and that`s what this is.  COHEN:  But his hens haven`t laid their first eggs. And he`s already spent more than $1,000 on this project.  Do you think this will be worth it in the long run, as opposed to just buying eggs?  RUIZ:  Yes. It`s going to pay off, not only after my first year. But just long term if I continue this process.  COHEN:  But some experts are skeptical.  Do you think most families won`t actually end up saving money?  DR. BRIGID MCCREA, PH.D., POULTRY SPECIALIST:  No, the numbers don`t really work out.  COHEN:  Bridget McCrea is a poultry specialist that teaches chicken owners how to raise small flocks, and she`s warning them not to wing it, as costs   like feed, housing, equipment, electricity, and time she says can drive up the average cost of backyard eggs to more than $20 a dozen.  MCCREA:  The reality is, that you`re going to spend more money on your chickens at home than you are on eggs at the grocery store.  COHEN:  But Cassidy O`Donnell says her hens are already fluffing the family`s bottom line, laying roughly eight dozen eggs each month, which   could cost more than $40 in a store. Instead, she`s spending about 20 bucks on chicken feed.  O`DONNELL:  So, we`re saving a lot having them in the backyard right now.  COHEN:  And she expects roughly 150 eggs a month once the weather warms up, and says they`ll try to sell what they can`t eat.  O`DONNELL:  That`s like $70 an egg at the store right now. So, yeah, we`ll see a return on it.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 a bus for dogs. A wife/husband duo from Alaska have a dog walking business and they decided   to drive around town to pick up the pups in style. CNN`s Jeanne Moos takes us for a ride. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Good morning Bama. JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  It definitely isn`t a Greyhound bus but there are hounds in it. MO THOMPSON, CO-OWNER, MO MOUNTAIN MUTTS:  Good morning, Jake. MOOS:  Nothing but dogs jumping into their assigned seats attached to leashes rather than seat belts, picking up waiting passengers with wagging   tails. THOMPSON:  Good morning, Amaru (ph). Would you like a complimentary liver with your bus ride? MOOS:  Nobody said no. THOMPSON:  Jake. Dasher. Gumbo. MOOS:  This bus is better than an airline. THOMPSON:  Excuse you. You already had yours. MOOS:  The doggy boss --   THOMPSON:  Load up. MOOS:  -- is operated by Mo Mountain Mutts in tiny Skagway, Alaska. It`s a husband and wife team offering dog training and dog walking. Do the dogs know their own seat? THOMPSON:  Most of them do. The new puppies don`t. They`ll try to just jump in any seat available. MOOS:  As they ride to outings --   UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  No, these are tangled. MOOS:  -- the bus offers the potential for entanglements. But when we watch them disembark -- oh sure, some of the passengers are rule breakers. THOMPSON:  Excuse me, ma`am, your tail is in the aisle. Ma`am, you`re going to have to adjust your butt. MOOS:  But there`s one seat that`s off limits. THOMPSON:  Who`s honking the horn? Bama? MOOS:  Bama`s ready to trade her dog license for a driver`s license. THOMPSON:  Excuse me, ma`am, you`re not driving. Get out of my seat. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right. We have two special shout-outs today. One to Ms. Bardella (ph) and her students who came up to say hello here in Buffalo. It was   awesome to meet you. Also, Warwick, Rhode Island, shout-out to Whitman Junior High. We see you.  You know, I had an old teammate who used to say there`s no-mentum like momentum, so let`s take great energy into this day and start this week   strong.  I`m Coy Wire and this is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-01-24
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Terrific Tuesday to you. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, and you are awesome. We have a great show for you   today, so let`s get to it. We`re going to begin with the news on lunar New Year. This is the year of the rabbit in Chinese culture. In China, the festivities are known as   spring festival or lunar New Year because the New Year is determined by the lunar calendar. Every year, red packets of money will change hands and   dragon dances will roar through the streets as people around the world usher in the New Year. The event typically results in what is considered the largest annual human migration as millions of people working and studying away from hometowns   head back to reunite with family and celebrate. Lunar New Year lasts 15 days. It`s an action-packed holiday with parades and fireworks and wearing   red is crucial. The color red in Chinese culture is associated with luck and prosperity and, of course, we can`t forget about the food. Grubbing is loving. And   food is central and essential to all Chinese festivals and -- but sugary snacks man they are especially important for lunar New Year because they   are said to sweeten up prospects for the New Year ahead. We`ll go now to international correspondent for CNN, Marc Stewart, who has more on what lunar New Year will look like this year in China. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MARC STEWART, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  The lunar New Year is underway and despite a mask mandate here in Hong Kong, people are   celebrating. Take a look at the iconic Victoria Harbor. People are lined up anxious to take a picture in front of the different plastic figurines. This is the   year of the rabbit. There are families here. There are tourists here, all anxious to take pictures and in many cases just a few selfies. This is a big shift from last year at this time when much of Asia had a lot of restrictions, even lockdowns. In mainland China, things have opened up   and as such, we have seen busy airports, busy train stations. During this roughly month-long period, it`s estimated there may be as many as 2 billion individual trips out of this broader population of 1.4 billion   people. While some health officials are expressing concern, the Chinese government feels that COVID has peaked in many places. As far as the year   of the rabbit, it`s a symbol of peace and prosperity, a wish that many people here in Hong Kong hope to share with the rest of the world. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which of these world heritage sites was built most recently? Machu Picchu, Great Wall of China, Chichen Itza, or Notre Dame Cathedral? Dating back to the 15th century, Machu Picchu is the youngest of these oldies but goodies. Right now, the world heritage site Machu Picchu is closed. It`s among the greatest artistic and architectural sites in the world built as a legacy of   the Inca civilization in Peru in the 15th century and then later abandoned. Built 2,400 meters above the sea level, the landmark site is made of   approximately structures. And did you know what exactly it was used for is still a mystery to this day. This week, the government shut down Machu Picchu indefinitely as anti- government protests across the country grow. We`ll hear more now from Rafael Romo, senior Latin American affairs editor of CNN worldwide, who has the story. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RAFAEL ROMO, CNN SENIOR LATIN AMERICAN AFFAIRS EDITOR:  Peru`s biggest tourist attraction, Machu Picchu, one of the seven wonders of the world   Peru announced Saturday it`s closing the famed site indefinitely including the Inca trail that leads up to it. Anti-government protests have choked transportation to and from the ancient citadel rail operators say they`ve had to suspend services because several   tracks have been blocked or damaged by protests that have spread throughout the country. In the past month, dozens of people have been killed in violent clashes. The fiery protest erupting after the ousting of former President Pedro   Castillo in December. Demonstrators are demanding new elections and calling for the resignation of current Peruvian President Dina Boluarte. The civil unrest has stranded tourists before. Last month, authorities evacuated hundreds of people after similar transit issues at Machu Picchu.   Officials say this time around, some tourists have left by foot, but the trick is at least six to seven hours long. Machu Picchu usually draws more than a million tourists a year but it`s now off limits. Peru`s national treasure overshadowed by its spiraling   political crisis. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Up next, a Las Vegas family style Italian restaurant was struggling but now it has lines out the door. The owner of Frankensons Pizzeria says   his dream of owning a restaurant was fading away until a local content creator Keith Lee made the restaurant an overnight sensation with one   heartfelt TikTok review. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KEITH LEE, CONTENT CREATOR:  Yesterday afternoon, I got an email from an employee of a family-owned restaurant here in Vegas. I got it. Let`s try it   and rate it 1 to 10. SUBTITLE:  Content creator Keith Lee gave a heartfelt review after hearing from a manager at family owned Frankensons pizzeria. LEE:  Frank, if you`re watching this, I`m going to be completely honest, you are an amazing man. SUBTITLE:  His viral TikTok gave the Las Vegas restaurant new life. LEE:  Let`s try this food. Garlic knots off rick. These look amazing. Boy, that thing packed with flavor. I ain`t going to try the ranch again because again I`m not a huge fan. This is one of the best wings I`ve ever had. SUBTITLE:  Lee has posted hundreds of taste testing videos, but his Frankensons review is by far the most popular, garnering 37.3 million   views. FRANK STEELE, OWNER, FRANKENSONS:  So, I went out on delivery. It was just me and another girl walking that aisle because we`re not busy. And the   phone was just started blowing up. Come Tuesday morning, we had a long line out of our door prior to us opening up. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Hey, guys how many saw this man on TikTok? (CHEERS) SUBTITLE:  Frank says prior to Keith Lee`s visit, his restaurant was struggling with rent and on the brink of closing down. STEELE:  Thirty years ago, I had a dream of opening my own restaurant. Finally, this year, it came through with the help of my family. But I saw   my dreams fading away because of the lack of traffic coming into my business. LEE:  That Summer, she the original employee that reached out to me. Summer, say hi. SUBTITLE:  Summer, the restaurant manager, reached out to Keith when she learned that the restaurant was close to shutting down. LEE:  The email read: I`m an employee at Frankensons pizzeria. It`s really slow. We really can`t afford rent and we would love for you to come and try   the food. Frank, from me to you, this is my opinion. There is no way you should be behind our rent or struggling to pay rent. It is marketing. That`s a   hundred percent what I feel like. That food is delicious. The service is amazing. SUBTITLE:  Frank said he is overwhelmed by the onslaught of customers and hopes that the popularity will remain. STEELE:  People from everywhere and that is very emotional -- to me, but they will come out. It`s support of my family and this trip is (INAUDIBLE). (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And for today`s 10 out of 10, if you love pizza, you`re going to love this. Pizza Hut went to the Los Angeles Convention Center to build the   world`s biggest pizza. And to complete the task, workers put down layers of dough, tomato sauce, toppings then bake the enormous pie with a special   heater. Let`s break this pie down by the numbers. Nearly 14,000 square feet of pizza, more than thirteen thousand pounds of dough. We`re talking nearly pounds of sauce and more than eight thousand   pounds of cheese. At the end, it worked out to be 68,000 pieces of pizza for their record-breaking pie. And Guinness World Records confirms it`s the   world`s biggest pizza. That is huge, for real though. Now, I`m going to be out the next two days but you`re going to be in great hands, and I look forward to coming back to finish this week strong with   you on Friday. I want to give a special shout out to Morton Middle School in Fall River, Massachusetts. We see you and we hope you and everyone   watching around the world have a wonderful one. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. Go out and make someone smile today. END     

Date: 2023-01-25
JON SARLIN, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, everybody. I`m Jon Sarlin. I`m a producer for CNN. I cover tech and business, and I`m the host of the CNN business   show "Nightcap". I`m so excited to be with you today filling in for Coy Wire. Thanks for having me, Coy. We got a lot of news today, let`s get started. We`re going to begin with the latest news on Ticketmaster. Did any of you try to get tickets for the   Taylor Swift concert recently? What about your favorite sports team? Well, if you did, chances are you probably saw tickets for those events on Ticketmaster. The company promotes itself as the way to buy and sell   tickets online for concerts, for sports, for theater events. But Ticketmaster is in the news this week after the Senate judiciary committee held a hearing exploring whether the merger between Ticketmaster   and the giant concert company Live Nation has led to a monopoly on tickets and harmed consumers by challenging any competition. In November, you might   remember, Ticketmaster halted public ticket sales of Taylor Swift`s Eras Tour after a chaotic rollout of pre-sale tickets left fans scrambling and   waiting hours in virtual cues for tickets, congratulations to anyone who might have gotten them. But the debacle was so bad that it did something very rare, it united members of Congress from both the Democratic and Republican Party who fear   that Ticketmaster now has a monopoly, meaning that they have exclusive control of the supply of tickets. We`ll hear more on this now from CNN national correspondent Jason Carroll who has more on the details of the hearing. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) JASON CARROLL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Scores of Taylor Swift fans still haven`t shaken off the bitter feeling of being shut out of   the pop star`s upcoming tour this month. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Ticketmaster takes the $490 out of my account but it, like, crashed. CARROLL:  All that ire directed at Ticketmaster, which bungled the pop star`s ticket sales so badly last November, it left thousands facing   technical issues, such as canceled tickets, a crashing site and an artist beside herself over what fans endured to get tickets. Some of those who did get them ended up paying thousands for resale tickets just to get a seat to see Swift." Now Ticketmaster is in the hot seat. Its parent company, Live Nation Entertainment`s president and CFO Joe Berchtold will have to answer to a   Senate Judiciary Committee about claims the Swift fallout is the result of anticompetitive conduct from a company with too much influence. SEN. AMY KLOBUCHAR (D-MN):  I have called for years for a change and maybe Taylor Swift fans will probably put it -- will finally put it over the   edge. CARROLL:  Berchtold is scheduled to testify Tuesday. Part of his planned testimony reads: In hindsight, there are several things we could`ve done better. We apologize to many disappointed fans, as well as   to Ms. Swift. Antitrust experts say the real issue before Congress is whether Live Nation Entertainment is a monopoly, something critics say was created in 2010 when   Ticketmaster and Live Nation merged. (MUSIC) CARROLL:  While some industry insiders questioned how much one hearing is likely to change things, others say the Swift movement has already had an   impact. MORGAN HARPER, AMERICAN ECONOMIC LIBERTIES PROJECT:  This is going to be the first hearing that the Senate will be holding. And it shows that this   is a priority issue for folks who are on the Judiciary Committee and that they see that there are problems with the Live Nation Ticketmaster merger. (END VIDEOTAPE) SARLIN:  Next up, 10-second trivia: What region is surrounded by the Adriatic Sea, the Ionian Sea and the Aegean Sea? Is it the Balkan Peninsula, the Amazon Basin, Patagonia or Western Plateau? Well, the only option here that`s surrounded by all of these features is the Balkan Peninsula in Europe. Speaking of the Balkan Peninsula, let`s travel to it to the country of Bosnia and Herzegovina where one lake is experiencing an example of extreme   pollution, pollution so alarming that even environmentalists are surprised. And look, ocean pollution is not unique to the Balkans, but this collection   point provides a clear picture of what can end up in waterways when not managed correctly. CNN meteorologist Allison Chinchar has more on this story along the Drina River where a clogged lake filled with downed trees and frozen trash is   gaining attention. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Snow falls on a lake on the Drina River. From up high, it`s coated with frost, but get a little closer and   you can see what`s underneath the veneer of snow. A massive tangle of trash clogging the waterway. Even environmentalists are surprised by what ends up here. DEJAN FURTULA, ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIVIST (through translator):  In addition to floating waste, such as plastic, there are also various household items,   including refrigerators and stoves. There`s nothing that is not present. But a significant portion is also fallen trees, which are very difficult to   remove. CHINCHAR:  Experts say it`s a recurring problem at this spot in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are several landfills and illegal dumps near the Drina   River. And after a heavy rain, the waste washes into the water and collects here. Anti-pollution barriers have been installed where the waist ends up accumulating. Local authorities say the problem will continue until there`s   adequate waste collection, and people dispose of their trash more responsibility. FURTULA:  In addition to posing a significant health and environmental problem, this is a source of great embarrassment for all of us. As we seem   unable to solve this issue for such a prolonged period. CHINCHAR:  A lake of trash, far from what nature intended it to be. (END VIDEOTAPE) SARLIN:  Next up, we`re going to talk about the future of work and what exactly that looks like. So, while many companies offered remote work and   flexible and hybrid schedules during the pandemic, workers may now be entering an era of having to go back into the office. Companies from Apple   to Disney to Starbucks are now requiring employees work from the office for more than half of the workweek. Last week on nightcap, my show CNN`s digital show focused on business and tech news, I spoke with a CEO Ed Zitron about what workers can expect in   2023. You can also sign up for the "Nightcap" newsletter and watch the show on CNN.com with new episodes every Thursday. Let`s see what Ed has to say. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) SARLIN:  The battle over working from home has entered a new phase. Disney just threw down the gauntlet requiring workers to be in the office four   days a week, beginning March 1st. Two days later, Starbucks ordered corporate employees back to the office three days a week. Other companies   are enforcing mandates as well. And Jane Frazier, the CEO of Citigroup, one of the only big banks to fully embrace hybrid work, just said this at the World Economic Forum. JANE FRASER, CEO, CITIGROUP:  We do want people collaborating in and they do collaborate better together. In productivity, you can see how productive   someone is or isn`t, and if they`re not being productive, we bring them back to the office or back to the site and we give them the coaching they   need until they get their productivity back up again. SARLIN:  So, with a tight job market, workers felt like they had the power to resist mandates to return to the office. But with all the big layoffs   lately in tech media and other corporate jobs, has the power shifted back to the employers? And Zitron is the founder of EZPR who has written about working from home for "The Atlantic" and his newsletter "Where`s Your Ed At". So, Ed, is it over? Have we reached the tipping point where this kind of workplace tug of war has now shifted back to the employer because workers   are afraid of losing their job? ED ZITRON, CEO, EZPR:  I think that there is an implicit threat from companies around this, now that there is a rockier economy that there are   layoffs happening, they`re basically saying, we`re not going to fire you but we need you back in the office due to reasons we will probably never   explain to you. The thing -- the reality is, it`s not going away. Remote work is not going away, but big companies, Starbucks, Disney and so on are using their   leverage here of we`re a big company and you want stability to say come back in the office because it makes us happy. (END VIDEO CLIP) SARLIN:  And for today`s 10 out of 10 story, this fourth-grade paleontologist made the discovery of a lifetime. On Christmas morning,   while walking on a beach in Maryland, Molly Sampson discovered a massive five-inch tooth from a prehistoric Megalodon shark, meaning big tooth. The   Megalodon is an extinct species of mackerel shark that lived approximately a million years ago. Molly`s mom said that children around the globe have sent letters to Molly sharing their excitement at her discovery. Good job, Molly. Last up, we can`t forget to give a shout out. Today`s special shout out goes to Mendota High School in Mendota, California. We see you. We thank   you for watching. And for you and everybody else watching around the world, I hope you have a wonderful day. I`m Jon Sarlin and it`s been awesome hanging with all of you   this Wednesday. Have a great day. END     

Date: 2023-01-26
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s going on from New York City, everyone. I`m Omar Jimenez and I am so happy to be back here with you for another   exciting day of CNN 10.  Let`s get right into it. If you search for this show on the world`s most popular search engine or if you`re watching on YouTube, then you`ve used a   Google product to get here. This week, Google is in the news because the U.S. Justice Department and eight states have sued Google, accusing the   company of harming their competition and the online advertising market.  For years, critics have said that Google has exploited their power and thwarted any competition. They say Google has used anti-competitive   exclusionary and unlawful means to create a monopoly over digital advertising and that they`ve acquired their rivals through anti-competitive   mergers. This move is the Biden administration`s first big anti-trust case against the big tech company.  The eight states span both U.S. coasts that include California, Colorado, Connecticut, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island, Tennessee, and Virginia. And while lawmakers and regulators have express concerns about Google in the past they`ve failed to pass new legislation or regulations. The last   antitrust complaint against Google was issued by the Trump administration in 2020. So let`s hear now from CNN`s Anna Stewart based in the London bureau who has more on what we can expect from Google. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANNA STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Allegations that Google holds too much control are nothing new, but this latest legal broadside from the U.S.   Justice Department its first major anti-trust case under the Biden administration has certainly ramped up the pressure.  Now this complaint argues that Google has actively and illegally dominated the digital advertising market for many years as detailed by the U.S.   attorney general in a press conference Tuesday. MERRICK GARLAND, U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL:  For 15 years, Google has pursued a course of anti-competitive conduct that has allowed it to halt the rise of   rival technologies, manipulate auction mechanics to insulate itself from competition and force advertisers and publishers to use its tools.  STEWART:  Now the lawsuit accuses the tech giant of controlling too much of the ecosystem of digital advertising including three main areas. Firstly, the technology used by major website publishers to offer ad space. Secondly, the tools used by advertisers to buy that space. And thirdly, the   largest automated ad exchange essentially linking the publisher with the advertiser.  The U.S. government is calling for Google to be broken up and forced to spin off at least its online advertising exchange an ad server for   publishers. Google responded with a statement saying: Today`s lawsuit from the DOJ attempts to pick winners and losers in the highly competitive   advertising tech sector.  It goes on to say their flawed argument with slow innovation raise advertising fees and make it harder for thousands of small businesses and   publishers to grow. Google is not new to fighting antitrust legal battles. The DOJ sued Google for its dominance in web searches in 2020. The E.U. commission launched an   antitrust probe into its conduct in digital advertising last year and has already fined Google three times in antitrust cases totaling more than nine   billion dollars so far. (END VIDEOTAPE) JIMENEZ:  All right. Ten-second trivia. What is the currency of Russia called? The rupee, ruble, yen, or franc? It`s the ruble, the basic monetary unit of the Russian Federation. We turn now to Russia`s war in Ukraine. On February 24th of last year, Russia launched a large-scale invasion of Ukraine and fighting there has   continued in the now nearly year ever since.  On Wednesday, Ukraine received what`s being called a major sign of support from the United States and Germany. The nations both announced that they`re   sending tanks to the front line in Ukraine. Germany plans to send 14 tanks. And the U.S. is planning to send its special Abrams tanks to Kyiv.  Republican Senator Lindsey Graham called the decision a turning point in the war and President Biden in a speech said the tanks will enhance   Ukraine`s capacity to defend its territory and achieve its strategic objectives. The president also announced a group of 50 nations that are   making other contributions in the form of military equipment and weapons. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  As you all know, I`ve been saying this for a long time. The expectation of the part of Russia is we`re   going to break up, we`re not going to stay united. But we are fully, thoroughly, totally united. (END VIDEO CLIP) JIMENEZ:  And though there was no immediate reaction from Russian President Putin, a Russian ambassador called Germany`s decision to send tanks in   extremely dangerous decision that would take the conflict to a new level of confrontation.  We`ll hear now from CNN international diplomatic editor Nic Robertson who has more on what to expect from Russian president Vladimir Putin. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (translated):  Dear Russian citizens --   NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  Putin`s biggest issue in 2023 will be feeding his war in Ukraine, both men and materiel. But a visit to an armaments producer in mid-January, he commended workers for upping output three shifts a day, 24/7. He told them they`d be exempt   from call up for military service in Ukraine. Hundreds of thousands of military-aged men fled Russia last year fearing conscription.  More than 100,000 Russian servicemen already believe killed in Ukraine. It`s the most unpopular feature of Putin`s war so far. More recruitment may   spur more resentment of him. But at the rate he burns through soldiers on the front lines means that this dilemma is only going to get worse foreign. His second biggest issue would be paying to feed the war. International economic sanctions are beginning to bite. If they chew into Russian   citizens` pockets, then Putin has a problem.  The dangerous high-wire walk Putin is trying to pull off keep the value of the ruble up, keep people in jobs, it`s only going to get harder. A cold   winter next year, impoverished Russians on the streets risks a revolt against the war and Putin himself and this will play into Putin`s long-  range concerns, an election 2024. In 2021, he signed a law allowing him to remain leader until 2036, but he has built a house of cards. Russian elections are neither free nor fair,   Putin has snuffed out dissent, locked up opposition leaders, taking control of all media but even that requires mafia-style playing of Russia`s power   brokers against one another.  If he can`t make gains in Ukraine or worse starts racking up losses, his grip on Russia`s power game could weaken. (END VIDEOTAPE) JIMENEZ:  For today`s 10 out of 10 news, a story as old as time. The rivalry between cat and microwave? Yeah, well, we have an insane video to   prove it.  So, I`m going to let CNN`s Jeanne Moos explain it from here with the details of this epic story. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  There was nothing micro about the epic battle waged by Bentley the cat against this microwave. He yanked   it. He physically moved it. He would have certainly gotten into it if it weren`t for the child lock his owners put on it to keep him out. BRITTANY SCHIESL, PET OWNER:  His body language while doing it, it doesn`t seem like a cat. MOOS:  He`s got this physique. He`s got like a great body. Using his legs like arms, he might have pulled the microwave right off the counter if the cord weren`t plugged in. No wonder this sometimes cross-eyed   cat from Sheridan, Oregon, has gone viral with millions of views. Bentley has been obsessed with the microwave ever since Brittany Schiesl left pizza in it. SCHIESL:  The microwave is wide open and the pizza is on the floor and gone pretty much. MOOS:  They also had to put a lock on the kitchen cabinets where Bentley uses all four legs. Without the child lock, we clocked him getting into the   microwave in eight seconds flat. Brittany says the appliance is his best friend. This story reminds me of one I did 27 years ago about Peggy the bull terrier who got into the fridge so often, his owner had to keep it locked. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  And then I stick it through the hole. MOOS:  But when it`s cat versus microwave, sometimes the cat moves the appliance, and sometimes the appliance moves him. (END VIDEOTAPE) JIMENEZ:  And before I go, it`s time. I want to give a huge shout out to Elmira High School in Elmira, Oregon. We hope you and everyone watching   there and around the world have a wonderful day.  I`m Omar Jimenez. It was so great to join you all today. See you soon. END     

Date: 2023-01-27
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Well, hello, you lovely people. You made it. A long week is now an almost gone week. It`s Friday, and you already know   Fridays rock. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10 and we`re going to finish this week strong. First up, a new study on our planet. Earth rotates at about a thousand miles per hour, but new research published in "Nature Geoscience" says that   the Earth`s inner core may have actually stopped turning and now might start to spin in reverse. What does this mean? Well, the solid inner core of the Earth is located 3,200 miles below the crust. That`s roughly the size of Mars or a third of Earth`s mass. And   because that core is separated from the Earth`s mantle by a liquid outer core, it allows the inner core to potentially rotate at a different speed   from Earth`s crust. The findings explain that seismic records taken since 2009 had always shown action but they`re now starting to show little difference, suggesting that   the inner core`s rotation has paused. The speed of the inner core`s rotation and whether it varies though are debated, and at least one   geophysicist not involved with this study says nothing cataclysmic is happening here. Scientists believe the spin of the inner core is driven by the magnetic field and balanced by the gravitational effects of the Earth`s mantle.   Knowing how the inner core rotates could shed light on how these layers interact and other processes deep in the Earth. Up next, we head to China where many families are reuniting for the first time in years. This week was the first week of lunar New Year. It`s the   year of the rabbit, the most important holiday in China which is widely celebrated across Asia has always prompted what has become known as the   world`s largest human migration, millions and millions of people returning to their hometowns to be with loved ones. But for the last three years, China has been locked down due to the country`s zero COVID policy. But the nation has recently loosened its   restrictions so people who work or study away from their hometowns feel free to travel again to see their family without the fear of getting locked   down due to the virus. My friend Selina Wang, our CNN international correspondent, is in Beijing, giving us a glimpse of what it`s like to finally be able to fully celebrate   lunar New Year again. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SELINA WANG, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over):  This year`s celebration is particularly special. The adults around this table all work   in factories in the cities. This is the only time when many of them can see their children. The man next to me says we got to go wherever we can make money and China`s Zero COVID policy over the last three years has made it all even harder. He says the policy prevented them from going home but now that the country`s open, they can all be together. We came to this place in China southern Guizhou province to see how the part of rural China is celebrating the Lunar New Year without pandemic   restrictions. About 1000 people live in this village and for hundreds of years, they`ve lived in these traditional wooden houses, and you can hear the chickens   crowing and there are these ducks as well that they raised for food. In many ways, this place is like a time capsule. Its physical isolation has preserved their way of life for centuries. They`re China`s Dong ethnic   minority. They have their own language, tradition and culture, but they can`t escape the economic realities of modernity. Normally, this village is full of the elderly and young kids with most of the working age adults gone, working in faraway factories sending money   home. This couple works in a factory 500 miles away in Guangdong province, making circuit boards. He tells me he hasn`t seen his kids for a year. Last time he left, his son couldn`t even walk. He says it`s emotional to see them grow so much. For the first time in three years, millions of Chinese migrant families are finally able to   reunite without the fear of COVID markdowns. Almost everyone I speak to on camera says no one around them has gotten COVID. Like this elderly woman who makes traditional crafts. She says she   has not been wearing a mask and points to her shoulder saying she had the vaccine shots. But we run into another group of young people who say otherwise. The man in the brown jacket with his back turned is a doctor at a hospital in a nearby   city. He says almost all of the villagers have been infected. I asked him if they just don`t realize they have COVID. In response he says they`ve   never been tested, but clearly, they had COVID symptoms. So, we`ve got the three government minders following us. It`s common for local officials to keep a close eye on foreign journalists in their jurisdictions. But they were especially persistent in this village   following our every move. So, we drive out of the village to visit a public hospital in a neighboring county about two hours away, hoping these   government minders won`t follow us, so people will feel more comfortable speaking freely. We walked inside the fever clinic. It`s almost entirely empty. In the main hospital area, there are more people, but it`s not packed. Soon after, we`ve realized we`re being followed apparently by a whole different crew. There are at least two, three government minders. They`re still following us all the way here. It`s very obvious. They followed us to hospital after hospital preventing anyone from speaking to us. I try confronting them. I asked them why they`re following us   everywhere. And he ignores me. He`s walking away. So, I tried this official. She refuses to even acknowledge my question. And what happens next talk during my interview with this girl shocks us. OK, so just interviewing the girl and then the mind literally took her away from us. The man pushes the girl and her family away, then later leaves them alone. But her interviews in the marketplace are over. China`s CDC says the COVID peak across the country has passed. But in rural areas like this, experts say there`s likely far more silent suffering. Whether it`s in the village or in faraway factories, they`re hardworking people. They`ll do whatever it takes to give their kids a better life, even   if it means long bouts of separation from them, making reunions like these all the more meaningful. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: What is the process where pieces of ice break away from a glacier and create an iceberg? Calving, stagnation, downwasting or foliation? Calving is the answer here and a nice shelf in Antarctica just dropped a tremendous chip off the old ice block. An iceberg that`s 600 square miles broke off in Antarctica on Sunday. That`s the size of two New York cities or nearly the size of greater   London. This type of calving was one of the most major events we`ve seen in Antarctica in a long time. It broke free from one of the most closely   observed ice shelves. An ice shelf is a large floating sheet of ice permanently attached to a landmass. Scientists had previously discovered   cracks in this particular one, but two major breaks occurred in the last two years. Researchers say this event was expected not the result of   climate change and they`re going to continue to monitor its every move to ensure it`s safe. (MUSIC) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 deserves a round of applause. Meet Spike, a Chihuahua mix hailing from Ohio, recently named the world`s   oldest living dog by Guinness World Records. Spike is 23 years old. According to American Kennel Club, a small dog that age would equate to 112   in human years. Spike`s owner found her forever friend abandoned and injured in the parking lot of a grocery store back in 2009 but she says he has the attitude of a   big dog, hence the name Spike. He enjoys going for walks on his family`s farm, visiting the cows and horses in the barn and when he has a rough day,   he enjoys his favorite treats -- sausage, cheese and Doritos. He also likes taking naps. We see you, Spike. All right. Let`s take great energy into this weekend. You never know who, you never know when, you never know how, but somehow, you just might be the   light someone needs this weekend. Shout out to Osborne High School in Marietta, Georgia. Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube page for your shout out. Remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2023-01-30
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Welcome back. I hope you had a great weekend. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. Here to help you kick start your week with some of the top stories of the day and having a little bit of fun along the way.  We start though with some really heavy news out of New Zealand. Record rainfall wreaking havoc on the northeastern part of the island country over   the weekend. Auckland, the nation`s largest city, declared a state of emergency.  Look at these scenes from the airport there which had to be closed as torrential downpours have caused major flooding with numerous evacuations   in the area. Several lives have been lost. On Friday, Auckland was hit with its average amount of rainfall for the entire month of January, all in just one hour`s time. New Zealand Prime   Minister Chris Hipkins says it`s been an unprecedented event. More now from CNN international anchor and correspondent Michael Holmes. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Mud on the floor, waterlogged drawers. This is what the floods left behind in   Auckland. This was someone`s house full of a lifetime of possessions. Residents say it took just minutes before chest deep waters washed through it. No time to   save anything except themselves. REBECCA MAGEE, RESIDENT:  I felt quite helpless, never been in that situation before. It happened real fast. HOLMES:  New Zealand`s new Prime Minister Chris Hipkins inspected the damage by air and on the ground and says the cleanup will be massive.  That`s because the amount of rain that fell Friday in Auckland has never reached such recorded levels in such a short amount of time. The city had   its worst downpour on record a burst of about 240 millimeters of rain falling in just a few hours. The heavy rains caused flash floods, closing   highways, grounding flights and stranding passengers, plunging neighborhoods underwater. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The water I think is up here, but when we`re trying to open that door to swim outside. HOLMES:  The waters have since receded but there are new fears in Auckland and further south where the storm has moved. The saturated ground giving   way to landslides in some areas leaving houses dangling from cliffs and backyards sliding down hills. Stunned neighbors are trying to determine the scale of the damage using the drier conditions to try to find anything salvageable from their homes. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I have been in this community my whole life, 45 years, I`ve never seen it like this. HOLMES:  But the brief cleanup that was started may have to be on hold as meteorologists say there is more rain in the forecast. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right. Protests took place in multiple cities in the United States over the weekend after the release of a video of a police encounter   that happened in Memphis, Tennessee, on January 7th.  According to a police report, Tyree Nichols was pulled over for reckless driving. After an initial confrontation, Nichols fled. He was then arrested   at a second location.  But in the video, officers are seeing striking nickels repeatedly during the encounter in a manner that law enforcement analysts have described as   well outside the limits of police training. Tyree Nichols died three days after the incident. The actions by these police officers have been widely   criticized and rallies in cities across the nation, including New York, Atlanta, Boston and L.A. have called for the end of such abuses by   authorities. All five police officers involved have been fired and charged with crimes and the police unit of which they were apart has been shut down. Lawyers   for at least two of the officers say their clients will plead not guilty to the charges and that no one in ended for the 29-year-old Nichols to die. We`ll hear from CNN correspondent Polo Sandoval who has the latest. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Here in the United States, it was another night of demonstrations from coast to coast in the wake of the   release of the series of videos showing the beating of Tyre Nichols. On Friday night, there was one incident in Times Square where at least three   arrests were reported. But outside of that, according to authorities, things have remained relatively peaceful. On Saturday night, another group   of protesters coming together here in Manhattan, hoping to stand in solidarity with the Nichols family, hoping that their voice makes it to   Memphis and beyond.  Here`s what one of the organizers of Saturday night`s event told our affiliate WCBS about why they`re coming together here in New York. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We are out here to fight and call for justice once again and continuously because the work did not stop in 2020, it didn`t   stop in 2021, and it did not stop in 2022. We are still here and we are still fighting until justice is done. SANDOVAL:  New York City`s police commissioner did say that they will continue to have officers out in full force, not only making sure that   citizens stay safe but also so to make sure that they protect the right for these individuals to peacefully assemble throughout the city here. They did   say also that they are really expressing outrage as well after seeing the video that was released, that series of videos that was released on Friday   night. It`s really what we`re also hearing from other police departments in other parts of the country strongly condemning what the world saw when those   videos were released. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: The inaugural contest of what sports competitions was held in Big Bear Lake, California, in 1997? The Goodwill Games, Rugby World Cup, The X Games, or Winter X Games? The Winter X Games is your answer here and the 27th edition of the event was hosted this past weekend in Aspen, Colorado. Nineteen-year-old freestyle skiing phenom Eileen Gu from San Francisco won two World Cup events this past week, storming back into competition for the   first time since the Beijing Winter Games, where she became the first free skier ever to win three medals at a single Olympics.  Now an injury during practice knocked her out of the X Games this weekend but Eileen told me ahead of the games how she balances being a student at   Stanford University, a pro-athlete and professional model. And she`s also telling us how she harnesses the power of her mind to help her shine. (BEGIN VIDEEO CLIP) WIRE:  I remember in Beijing at the Olympics, you were journaling, you were writing affirmations before half pipe, convincing yourself you weren`t   tired. How big of a role does training your mind play in your life? EILEEN GU, FREESTYLE SKIER:  Huge, huge role. I think that for me my biggest strength is my brain. I`m shamelessly a nerd. Everywhere I go, the   reputation follows me and you know, I`ll take it. I definitely propagate it out there.  And at the end of the day, I think that so much of skiing is in your own head. It`s an individual sport which means that your biggest rival really   is yourself and overcoming that fear being able to perform on the day, learning how to deal with pressure, these are all things that are practiced   and they are behaviors that I`ve spent a long, long time learning about how I naturally cope with them and then trying to exacerbate my strengths. So in that sense, I do a lot of journaling. I do a lot of thinking, a lot of reflection, a lot of visualization. WIRE:  You once said your wish is to inspire young girls to break boundaries. What do you mean by that, Eileen? GU:  I mean that growing up, I think so much of what you think is possible for yourself is dependent on what you see out there in the world. It can be   on TV. It can be on social media it can be what you see your friends doing. I guess it`s just feeling as though you`re not alone, feeling that there`s   a place for you in the community or in the sport that you want to participate in.  For me, growing up, there weren`t that many girls in the ski industry. There were a couple and I looked up to them a bunch and they really, really   inspired me. But I guess what I want to do is, you know, I`m young and I`m trying to do my best and I just want to be the person that a girl at home   can see on TV or on their phone and say, hey, you know, if she can do that, then I want to try it, too.  She looks like she`s having fun, when can I try? And really, that`s all I want to do. I just want to be out there. I want to reflect the population   that`s interested in it and hopefully inspire someone to take it up. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  And for today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, something unbearably cute and funny. A trail cam in Boulder, Colorado, captured about 580 photos   and around of them were bear selfies. Is it possible that this black bear knew exactly what it was doing? There are all sorts of poses like the   coming right at you or the stare off into the distance or how about the pretty side posts, who me? There`s even a hey, look at my paw, y`all. This pabearazzi was having a ball clearly. There are roughly between 17,000 and 20,000 black bears in the state of Colorado, but none of them can   strike a pose quite like this one. Hey, y`all, hey. Thank you very much for all the love on our CNN 10 YouTube Channel. We surpassed 700,000 subscribers now, so special thanks to you. And salute to South Middle School in Edinboro, Texas. You get our shout out for the day.  Let`s call out today and do something to make this world a bit of a better place, even if it`s just making someone smile today. I`m your boy Coy, and   I`ll be right here with you tomorrow. END     

Date: 2023-01-31
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Good morning, everyone. Terrific Tuesday to you.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10 and we have a rendezvous with the news. So let`s go. First up, today, we`re heading to Ukraine. It`s been almost one year since Russia`s war in Ukraine began and there is no end in sight for the   conflict.  This month, the United States and some of its NATO allies sent tanks to help aid the front line in Ukraine. The U.S. pledged 31 of its Abrams   tanks, Poland said it will provide 60 tanks. The U.K. committed 16, Germany sent 14. In the United States, politicians in both parties called this move   a turning point in the war and said that the tanks will enhance Ukraine`s capacity to defend its territory and achieve its strategic objectives.  Fifty additional nations around the world are making other military contributions as well. The gesture was seen as a major sign of support, but   some have criticized the decision saying it could make these NATO allies too involved in the war itself and some critics are asking if this means   NATO is now directly involved in the conflict with Russia. We`re joined now by CNN international correspondent Fred Pleitgen with the latest on the conflict. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Revving like a dragster, the crew from the 28th mechanized brigade warm up   their Soviet-era T-64 for battle.  We have problems with ammunition, we`re running low, the commander tells me. And that`s the only problem we have. We get enough spare parts. Our   commanders work all the time to sustain the tank and repair it.  That commander who goes by the call sign "David" races the 40-year-old beast towards the front line like a steam engine train.  A lot of Ukraine`s main battle tanks are as old as this one. That`s why the military says they urgently need those new Western main battle tanks. They   say around three to four hundred to try and turn the tide in this war.  The problem, Ukraine is running out of Soviet-era tanks and is having increasing trouble replacing those lost in battle or needing repair. The   28th helped liberate Kherson in the south and then was sent here. It`s already been a long war for this unit. Ukrainian soldiers on the front around Bakhmut are elated. Western nations are sending modern battle tanks, M1A2 Abrams from the U.S., German-made   Leopard 2s and British challenger tanks.  But the Ukrainians are also masters at using the old Soviet tanks they have now to best effect. Firing, reloading, taking aim and quickly shooting   again.  The tank engineer who only gave his name is Maksym says the soldiers from the 28th could operate these vehicles blindfolded.  If we fire from a covered position, we use this device, he says. It`s old and analog but pretty efficient, very precise. Ukraine`s forces say their tanks have been extremely important and effective here in Bakhmut. The tank commander says they`re constantly   working to stop Wagner`s advances here.  We just fight against them. If we stop, they will come closer and we will lose our houses and families. We stand here to allow people to peacefully   live in their homes. But Ukraine`s army is under growing pressure around Bakhmut as the Russians pour more armor into this area. The promised western tanks probably won`t   arrive fast enough to make a difference in this battle, but these soldiers hope they will turn the tide of the war. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which of these is the largest continuous sand desert in the world?  Gobi, Empty Quarter, Namib or Great Victoria? At about 250,000 square miles, the Empty Quarter desert covers parts of Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Oman and the United Arab Emirates. Up next, we`re headed to that desert in the Middle East to talk about dust storms. Our journey begins all the way in the United Arab Emirates. We`ll   meet Diana Francis, an atmospheric scientist in Abu Dhabi and an expert on dust storms.  Now, when dust storms hit, they can be dangerous, driving thousands of people to hospitals shutting down businesses and schools these storms know   no borders and wreak havoc across the Middle East, and the phenomenon cost the region`s economies an estimated $13 billion a year. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORETER:  Diana Francis is an atmospheric scientist at Khalifa University in Abu Dhabi, and an expert on a natural phenomenon: dust storms. DR. DIANA FRANCIS, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR, KHALIFA UNIVERSITY:  Dust storms are weather phenomena that are caused by high wind speed that are occurring   near the surface over desert regions. They will lift small particles of sand and this particle will be able to travel thousands of kilometers   around the globe. REPORTER:  In June 2020, a colossal dust storm nicknamed Godzilla crossed the Atlantic from the Sahara Desert. Darkening skies across the Caribbean,   it was the biggest dust storm worldwide in 20 years, according to NASA, and one of a number recently wreaking havoc across the globe. In 2022, thousands of people were hospitalized across the Middle East, with respiratory problems due to a wave of deadly dust storms. FRANCIS:  In some cases, we have visibility that drops to meters and then people will feel the difficulty to breathe and we can do for example   outside activities, whenever the dust storm occur.  REPORTER:  In 2016, the U.N. estimated this extreme weather cost the Middle East and North Africa region`s economy billion dollars a year in damage to   the environment, agriculture, transport and infrastructure. It`s a problem made worse by increasing heat waves and droughts due to climate change and   alterations in land use which create more sources of dust. FRANCIS:  I really wanted to know what`s special about the Empty Quarter desert, what`s happening in the atmosphere on the sand and the land.  REPORTER:  The Empty Quarter desert, 250,000 square miles, stretching across the Arabian Peninsula, it`s the world`s largest sand desert. Francis   and Khalifa University are conducting what she says is first of its kind research in the region, to measure dust storms coming from the empty   quarter.  FRANCIS:  So we have a meteorological tower on which we have several sensors at different levels, so it allows us to have the vertical structure   of the atmosphere.  REPORETER:  That data helps predict dust storms in the region and further afield. Her work on dust is even more important in a region where solar   power is emerging as a green energy source.  FRANCIS:  We know that solar energy efficiency is impacted by dust storm and if we want to understand how much we can rely on these energy sources   we need to be able to predict dust storms, and their activity.  The story about studying the weather is a new end story because there is always something new, something novel to discover. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And for today`s 10 out of 10, we`ve definitely heard of a neighborhood cat getting caught in the tree. Well, now, we have a dog --   meet Izzy, who is probably feeling dizzy when he realized he was high up in a tree. Oh what a tizzy. He was lost in his own little world, just trying   to have some fun as he was chasing after squirrels but then he got stuck. But Izzy was in luck, first responders came to save him with their little fire truck, and they even brought Izzy some snacks. Shout out time now. High five and a high 10 to Morgan City High School in Morgan City, Louisiana. Go Tigers. Hope you have a happy day. And remember happiness isn`t some ideal we have to chase or create. Happiness is right here, right now, whenever we choose to embrace it. Much   love, many blessings.  I`m Coy, and this is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-02-01
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. It`s your boy Coy, wishing you a wonderful Wednesday. We`re halfway through the week so let`s lock in and   keep aiming to be a little better today than we were yesterday. Time now for the best 10 minutes in news, and we start today with what is being called a triple threat of winter weather in the United States. More   than 40 million people from New Mexico to West Virginia are under various forms of winter weather alerts. Roads in many of these places were   considered very dangerous. And one person has already lost their life in a 10-car pileup in Austin, Texas.  Since Monday, EMS crews in the Dallas-Fort Worth area have responded to at least 142 traffic accidents while the forecast shows there will be periods   of reprieve over the next two days. Roads will likely be dangerously slick throughout the storm as temperatures remain low.  Millions of people across the southern and central parts of the nation are bracing for an ice storm which could pose a triple threat: ice, sleet and   snow. Officials have already closed schools and roads in anticipation of the conditions. In fact, driving in certain areas is already so dangerous   in large part because many cities and towns, they`re just not equipped to handle this kind of weather. So please tell your family and friends to be   careful. Now, let`s talk about a different type of storm, hurricanes. Today, we`re highlighting a community that`s built to withstand them. Babcock Ranch in   coastal Florida calls itself America`s first solar-powered town and it never lost any power during the devastating hurricane Ian which wreaked   havoc on communities all around it.  The town which is located 12 miles inland from Fort Myers has streets that are specifically designed to funnel flood waters away from houses. And   landscaping -- well, that`s designed to guard against storm surge many of us have either been directly impacted or know somebody who`s seen their   home or business destroyed by hurricanes, but could the way we design cities be the answer? CNN chief climate correspondent Bill Weir traveled to Babcock Ranch which is designed to weather the weather. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT (voice over):  When Hurricane Ian brought gusts over 150 miles an hour, much of the power grid in its   path did not stand a chance.  Look at that.  And thanks to two feet of rain, even communities miles from the storm surge could not escape life-altering floods.  But even as white caps ripped across the lake in Anthony Grande`s (ph) backyard, he was chilled out in front of the TV.  ANTHONY GRANDE, BABCOCK RANCH RESIDENT:  You know, that`s one of the things I said to my wife when we were -- were sitting there watching TV, I`m like,   I don`t have any fear right now.  WEIR:  Anthony and the 2,000 families around him never lose power and did not flood because they live in Babcock Ranch, a community about 15 miles   from Ft. Myers, which is 100 percent solar powered.  GRANDE:  I even held on to my generator not knowing what was really going to happen. So my wife was like, get rid of it. I`m like, no, I`m not   getting rid of it. I`m not doing it. That`s what we -- we go through the test. And this was the test. WEIR:  This was the test. GRANDE:  This was a big test. So. WEIR:  And now you can let go of the generator?  GRANDE:  I did. I gave it to a friend.  WEIR:  Jennifer Langwell (ph) was nervous during the storm because with a Ph.D. in civil engineering, she helped design this place.  JENNIFER LANGWELL, BABCOCK RANCH RESIDENT:  I literally got my construction drawing out and I looked at the wind load that my house was designed to,   and I looked at my finished floor elevation, and I looked at the road elevation, and I just mentally was crunching numbers because I was like,   this is going to be bad.  WEIR:  And it was. But their interconnected lakes and protected wetlands saved them from flooding. And the 700,000 solar panels in their 150 mega-  watt array all held solid.  I always assumed that solar panels and hurricanes don`t mix, that it would turn them into projectiles, but you didn`t lose any or --   LANGWELL:  No. That`s the beautiful thing about engineering, right, is that you understand the wind loads and you understand the stress and the strain   and you design to that.  WEIR:  This place is the brain child of Syd Kitson, an NFL offensive lineman turned developer, who bought a massive cattle ranch, sold most of   it to Florida as a nature preserve, and set out to build the cleanest, most resilient town in America.  GRANDE:  Here`s the elementary school. We have a field house over there which is now housing people as a shelter.  WEIR:  Right. I guess it`s fitting that the mascot of Babcock High are the Trail Blazers.  GRANDE:  Trail Blazers. Everything`s very well thought out here.  WEIR:  I`ve got to say, my heart still breaks. I feel a little guilty leaving the damage --   GRANDE:  Right. WEIR:  But it`s a relief to come to a place unscathed like this.  GRANDE:  Yes, we`re feeling the guilt to being out here. WEIR:  Are you? GRANDE:  Yes, absolutely. Yes. I mean we`ve certainly got it really good out here. LANGWELL:  It`s unfortunate to feel guilty about it. I feel relieved that we`re not adding to what first responders have to deal with and that we`re   able to help the community. So, we have people here making meals. We`re taking in laundry from sheriffs and firefighters that are in from out of   town. Because we were resilient, because we were durable, we`re able to help in that way.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which of these sports invented in 1965 is the official state sport of Washington? Tennis, squash, pickleball or badminton? Pickleball was created on Bainbridge Island, Washington, by Joel Pritchard and some friends as a backyard game for kids. Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10. Aunt Nora, a passionate prize-winning pickleball playing prodigy giving us some tips on how to dominate in the fastest growing sport in America via   her niece, CNN senior producer Janelle Davis. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JANELLE DAVIS, CNN SENIOR PRODUCER (voice-over):  Pickleball is the fastest growing U.S. sport with about 5 million players. This addicting game is a   mashup of tennis, ping pong and badminton. I even got hooked and I`m lucky to take my game to the next level. Lucky for me, I have a national competitor in my family. That`s Aunt Nora in the white skirt. We go way back. Clearly, she`s going easy on me here but at just under five feet, she dominates on the court and has won countless trophies. NORA DAVIS, NATIONAL PICKLEBALL COMPETITOR:  I will play five days a week, anywhere from two to five hours a day. I am truly an addict. J. DAVIS:  She lives in Washington state, the birthplace of pickleball and here are her three tips to take your game to the next level. Number one: add spin to your dink. Okay let`s back up for the newbies watching. This part of the court is the non-volley zone, known as the kitchen. Experienced players keep the ball low and get in an offensive position near   the kitchen, giving your opponent less time to react. Shots for this is called the dink, a short soft hit into your opponent`s kitchen. Here`s how it`s done --   N. DAVIS:  You`re going to get low and then you`re going to come up and lift it like you would. But instead of stopping right there, you`re going   to roll your hand forward. J. DAVIS:  That spin makes your shots lethal. To practice, play a game starting near the kitchen hitting dinks back and forth, keep it low and   slow. You`ll learn accuracy and patience. N. DAVIS:  You need to have a lot of patience with your dink shots. Your opponent will make a mistake before you do if you have patience. J. DAVIS:  Number two, master the drop shot, one of the hardest shots. The drop is a soft hit from deep in the court that drops into your opponent`s   kitchen, allowing you to explode towards the net and go on the attack. N. DAVIS:  To do the drop shot, you want to get low and lift just to your chest.  J. DAVIS:  You`ll need a loose grip, control swing and to get low, being short like my eye helps too. Number three, time your split step. That`s the ready position. You don`t want to be moving as you hit the ball. You want to be stabilized. The best   players can predict where the ball is going and quickly position themselves for the return.  Now, you`re ready to play. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right. Today, it`s officially Black History Month and February 1st is National Freedom Day, honoring the signing of the 13th Amendment by   President Abraham Lincoln which abolished slavery in the U.S.  Today is also hashtag your word Wednesday. Follow me @CoyWire on Insta, Snapchat and TikTok, and put your challenge words in the comment section of   my most recent post and we`ll choose one fun one to work into tomorrow`s show. The last word was pulchritudinous meaning beautiful. Shout out to the pulchritudinous people at James Madison Middle School in Roanoke, Virginia. Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10   YouTube channel.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, and I`ll see you tomorrow. END     

Date: 2023-02-02
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. It`s Thursday. So happy Friday eve. I`m Coy Wire. And we`re going to start this day with a shout-out to all the teachers out there, keep uplifting, guiding and inspiring. You`re so money, baby. Students, dap up your teacher today, give them a handshake or high five and let them know you appreciate them. Speaking of money, let`s start today by talking about the debt ceiling in the United States. In case you`re still unsure about exactly what the debt   ceiling is, we`ve got you covered. You can also call it the government`s debt limit. It`s the total amount of money the United States government is authorized to borrow to meet its   existing legal obligations, like paying for military salaries, tax refunds, Social Security and Medicare benefits, and interest on the national debt   among other things. But once the debt limit is reached and if the government can`t borrow any more money, that means the government could fail to make payments, fail to   take care of its own obligations by defaulting on all national debt, and that would greatly impact the U.S. government`s reputation across the   globe. We`ll hear more now from White House correspondent Arlette Saenz on what the United States government could be facing in the near future and what   the impact could be. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  President Biden and House Speaker Kevin McCarthy are heading towards a high-stakes showdown over the   debt ceilings. This will be the first time Biden McCarthy are meeting in person since McCarthy became House Speaker and both sides have said the   debt limit will be on the table. Now both men have said that they don`t want to see the nation default on their debts but for the time being they disagree on how to get there. House Speaker Kevin McCarthy has insisted that he believes there should be negotiations and that ultimately, they believe that there need to be   spending cuts if the debt ceiling will be raised. But President Biden and the White House have insisted that there will be no negotiations over this,   and that Congress must fulfill their obligation to raise the debt ceiling. A spokesperson for the White House saying in a statement, quote, the president will ask Speaker McCarthy if he intends to meet his   constitutional obligation to prevent a national default, as every other House and Senate leader in U.S. history has done, and as leaders McConnell   Schumer and Jeffries have pledged to do. The president, they add, will underscore that the economic security of all Americans cannot be held   hostage to force unpopular cuts on working families. Now, Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen has said that they are using extraordinary measures until this moment and that the nation`s debt limit   must be raised by early June. So, certainly this could have huge ripple effects for the U.S. economy if the nation were to default on their debt. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Okay, imagine trying to find a tiny capsule just eight millimeters long and trying to find it on an enormous highway in Australia. Now,   imagine the pressure when this tiny capsule is filled with a highly radioactive material. A capsule containing cesium-137 which can cause serious harm went missing as it traveled hundreds and hundreds of miles from a mining site to Perth,   the capital of Western Australia. Authorities said this would have been like trying to find a needle in a haystack. So, was this search worthless? Was this mission just an exercise in floccinaucinihilipilification? Or did they find this elusive capsule after   all? Here`s CNN international correspondent Marc Stewart with the latest. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MARC STEWART, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  The radioactive capsule has been found and to give you some context, this is a Hong Kong coin similar   in size to a U.S. dime. It`s that small. It is used in mining. Here is the history: the capsule was discovered six days after authorities realized it went missing, likely after falling off a truck. Eventually it   was found off the side of a road by crews using radiation detection equipment. It was found not far from the Rio Tinto mine, suggesting it fell   off the truck soon after it left on January 12th. But the potential search area was enormous a distance longer than the California coastline. A perimeter was set up and now the goal is to   transport it in a lead container to a health department facility in Perth. This was concerning because human exposure could cause skin burns, radiation sickness. There`s even a cancer risk in some cases. Authorities felt the chance of finding it was slim now they must determine how this happened in the first place. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which airplane model was the first airplane to be considered a jumbo jet? 747, DC-10, 737, or A380? With its first flight on February 9th, 1969, the 747 is your answer here. It was called jumbo jet as it was the first wide body airliner. And up next, we will salute the queen of the skies, the Boeing 747. This spacious and sleek aircraft that was once touted as the future of airplane   travel when it took off in 1969 is now a plane of the past, as airlines are opting for more fuel-efficient alternatives. This week, Boeing completed and delivered the last 747 to ever be built. And on Wednesday, the plane flew a path spelling out on the flight tracker   to commemorate the moment. Let`s learn more about the history of this jumbo jet and what`s in store for the airlines of the future. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORTER:  When it was revealed in 1969, it broke the mold and defined jumbo. It brought jet travel to the people, carried world leaders, cultural   icons, and even spacecraft. For half a century, it was the queen of the skies. But now, the last model has been delivered, Boeing 747 is beginning to approach its final   touchdown. Built to meet the boom in demand for air travel in the 1960s, the 747 was a giant that needed the world`s largest factory to match its jumbo   proportions, 225 feet from nose to tail it had a wing surface bigger than a basketball court, and its innovative wide body double aisle and double deck   design would allow it to carry up to 500 passengers, while ensuring it would also be a freight hauling behemoth with looks like no other. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Pan-am will bring you the plane with all the room in the world, before you know it. REPORTER:  Taking to the skies for its first commercial flight in 1970, the 747 cut airfares in half and opened up a world of affordable air travel.   Airlines across the globe clamored to have a jumbo jet in their fleet, and airports and their equipment had to be modified to accommodate its enormous   size and passenger capacity. But spacious interiors, a trademark spiral staircase and superior service also had the world`s rich and famous flocking. Glamorous silver screen   appearances cemented its lavish reputation, and it became the go-to transport for many of the world`s elite, a trend set to continue with the   presidentially modified Air Force One. The 747 was so capable, it was even used to transport NASA`s space shuttles and it continues to be used to launch satellites with Virgin Orbit. But the queen of the sky`s days of carrying passengers are entering their final chapter. Sales of the redesigned 747-8 failed to take off, with   airlines opting for more fuel-efficient two-engine alternatives. Pandemic travel lockdowns grounded much of the remaining fleet and the last made like most still in service will be used to fly cargo. And so, after half a century of service, the sun is beginning to set on Boeing 747. It`ll be remembered as one of the most important airplanes ever   made. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a Rorschach test from Mars. What do you see when you look at this photo of a rock formation on   Mars? A Rorschach test is a psychological test where a person looks at ink blots and then reveals what they see and psychologists analyze the answers   to examine a person`s personality characteristics, it`s all in the eyes of the bear holder. What this actually is that we`re seeing is a circular fracture on the surface of Mars, with craters. This high-resolution photo was captured by a   reconnaissance orbiter, a spacecraft designed to search for the existence of water on Mars as part of NASA`s Mars exploration program. All right. So many great your word Wednesday submissions yesterday. Thanks to Ms. Spicer`s civics class at Hughes. Today`s word is   floccinaucinihilipilification. And this is a noun, one of the longest words in the English language, not easy to pronounce, it means the estimation of   something as valueless. Well done, everyone. And shout out now to Butte County High School in Arco, Idaho. We see you. We hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one. I`m Coy Wire, and this is CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-02-03
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, everyone. You made it to Friday, and you already know Friday`s rock. This is the first Friday in February, one of the coldest months in the year for many Americans but it`s also a month that celebrates love and   appreciation. So, we`re sending you our love and appreciation. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. Let`s finish this week strong. We`re going to begin today`s episode by talking finance, specifically about interest rate hikes. An interest rate is what banks get paid by the people   who borrow money from them. In the United States, the Federal Reserve System is the central banking system for the entire country. It was created on December 23rd, 1913 with   the enactment of the Federal Reserve Act as a way to protect against future financial crises. When the Federal Reserve raises interest rates, it means   people have to pay back a higher percentage of the money they borrow. Why would the Fed want to do that? Well, because of inflation. The thinking goes that if interest rates are higher and it`s more expensive for people   and businesses to borrow money, they`ll spend less of it and inflation will settle back down. The cost of living in America has gone up significantly   as prices of things we buy have risen. We`ll hear now from CNN business reporter Matt Egan. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MATT EGAN, CNN BUSINESS REPORTER:  The Fed`s war on inflation isn`t over but it is shifting. This 25-basis point rate increased from the Fed is the   smallest since this fight against inflation began back in March. Now, the Fed is still trying to slow this economy down to knock inflation down. But it`s gone from slamming the brakes on the economy to tapping the brakes and that is an important shift because it lowers the risk that the Fed ends   up causing an accident, either in financial markets or in the real economy or in both. And the Fed is changing its tune on inflation a bit. The statement says that inflation remains elevated, but it also concedes that it has eased. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Okay. Did you know tsunamis can travel thousands of miles at speeds up to 500 miles per hour. A tsunami is a series of waves usually caused by   an underwater event like an earthquake or a volcanic eruption and they can cause serious damage to communities that are hit by them. More than 700   million people live in coastal areas that could be exposed to tsunamis. So, imagine how powerful it would be if we could predict them. We`re traveling to Tonga, a Polynesian country that`s part of an archipelago of islands to hear about the work of the folks at the Tonga   Geological Society who are studying the ocean floor to get a better sense of what causes tsunamis. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORTER:  Late December, in the middle of the South Pacific, an underwater volcano is active once again. Two weeks later, a series of eruptions will   reverberate around the planet and be visible from space. Tsunami warnings were issued across the Pacific and the next afternoon, a series of waves hit the island country of Tonga, some as high as 15 meters,   killing three people and leaving mass destruction in their wake. When the dust had settled a few months later, a ship from New Zealand`s National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research or NIWAR set sail to   find out what had triggered the eruption. Marine geology technician Erica Spain was on board. DR. ERICA SPAIN, MARINE GEOLOGY TECHNICIAN, NIWA:  The voyage up to Hunga Tonga-Hunga Ha`apai, an active volcano, was really exciting. It`s a multi-  disciplinary voyage. So, you`ve got multiple science streams working together to try and figure out what was going on and why it erupted so   violently. There are the multi-beams on either side. REPORTER:  Spain`s mission was to map the sea floor around the volcano using a machine called a multi-beam echo sounder. SPAIN:  An acoustic pulse, so a ping or a sound is emitted or sent out from the bottom of the ship and then it echoes effectively off the sea floor and   then we have hydrophones or a listening ear that receives that echo and from that we can determine how deep the sea floor is and build up an idea   of its shape and geometry. Every volcano has a different trigger in terms of when it might erupt, and by mapping Hunga Tonga-Hunga Ha`apai and then comparing that to other   volcanoes, we can begin to build up a better image of what these triggers might be or what they might look like on the sea floor. REPORTER:  Mapping, taking rock samples and filming underwater all help build a bigger picture of what happened here. SPAIN:  So, you have to become a seafloor detective to piece all those small parts together. REPORTER:  That detective work can help countries like Tonga better prepare for tsunamis. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: The vernal equinox marks the start of what season? Spring, summer, fall or winter? Happening on March 20th this year, the vernal equinox marks the start of spring. Bye, bye wintertime. Yesterday, February 2nd was Groundhog Day. On this day, some people predict when winter will come to an end by watching a groundhog. In Pennsylvania, my home state, one of the most notorious groundhogs of all time, Punxsutawney Phil. Each year in a tradition derived from a   Pennsylvania Dutch superstition, people watch to see how the groundhog emerges from its burrow and whether or not the furry creature sees its   shadow well that will determine when winter will end and spring begins. February 2nd isn`t just some random day. It falls at the midpoint between the winter solstice and the spring or vernal equinox, making it the ideal   time to consider when springtime might finally come. We`re going to meet up with one of our in-house experts now to break it all down and find out what Punxsutawney Phil had in store for us this time. All right. The forecast in the hat you`ve all been waiting for, we`re here with friend of the show, CNN meteorologist Allison Chinchar. And here it is, Punxsutawney Phil officially predicts six more weeks of winter after seeing a shadow Thursday morning. ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  That`s right. Now, the legend goes, if the groundhog sees his shadow, which he did this morning, we will have   six more weeks of winter. But if there had not been a shadow, spring would actually arrive early. Now scientifically speaking, winter will officially come to an end on the equinox, on March 20th, regardless of what Phil predicts but Mother Nature   doesn`t always follow the timetable and neither does Phil. WIRE:  All right. So, what if we don`t like his forecast? CHINCHAR:  Okay. So don`t worry because he`s actually usually wrong. In the past, Phil has been way more likely to see his shadow than not in fact.   He`s reportedly seen his shadow 105 times, but not seen his shadow only 20 times. Statistically speaking, Phil has only been correct in his forecast about 40 percent of the time in just the last years. WIRE:  That`s not very good, Phil. Sorry. The interesting thing here is also the Phil`s not the only forecasting groundhog. In fact, there are many others just like him. He has competitors   in states like Georgia, New York, Illinois, Wisconsin, Ohio and some states they`re not even groundhogs, they have nutrias, they have possums, they   have ducks and a lobster? CHINCHAR:  I`m not sure how you`d see that shadow, not so much. Now some of the more colorful names include PRC shadow of Louisiana, General Beauregard Lee of Georgia, and Staten Island Chuck from New York   just to name a few. And ultimately quite what this means is if you don`t like Phil`s forecast, chances are you`ll like one of the other forecasters` forecasts just as   well. (MUSIC) WIRE:  And for today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, scientists have invented a shape-shifting robot. Check this out. The robot was presented as   part of the research on metal micro particles, and it`s made from gallium, a metal with a low melting point. The robot is able to move via the use of magnets. Scientists hope that one of the areas this type of drippy droid could help would be surgeries   believe it or not, potentially making them more effective and safe. And their inspiration for all this? A sea cucumber. What in the world? All right. Special shout out now to Sycamore Middle School in Sycamore, Illinois. We see you. It has been awesome learning with you this week. Let`s finish this day off right and take boundless energy into the weekend. And remember, you are   more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire, and it`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2023-02-06
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, lovely people. Hope you had a wonderful weekend. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, and we`re grateful to be   here to help you make this an awesome week. First up today, the latest on the dramatic takedown of a suspected Chinese spy balloon that had been flying across the United States over the past few   days. The U.S. government ordering an F-22 fighter jet to use a heat- seeking missile to blast the balloon out of the sky, and that`s exactly what happened on Saturday. Some witnesses were caught off guard by the   delayed sound of the explosion. Listen. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  That plane just -- had a strike.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I don`t see the balloon anymore. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I just got it on video. I did, all right? The balloon is gone. (EXPLOSION) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Whoa! Did you hear that? Are you still video? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I am still videoing. The sound just hit us. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Okay. So how did we get here? Well, last week, the U.S. government confirmed it had been tracking the 90-foot balloon which was first spotted   over Montana on Wednesday. The suspected spy balloon from China even flew over a number of sensitive U.S. military sites over the course of a few   days.  China`s defense ministry spokesperson though has protested the shoot down saying the balloon was a civilian weather aircraft which flew off course by   accident, but U.S. officials maintained that the balloon was being used for surveillance purposes.  There was much debate about what the U.S. should have done about the balloon, including calls to shoot it down immediately with critics of   President Biden saying the decision to allow the balloon to fly over the country for days was, quote, weak. But top U.S. military officials have   said that the balloon posed no military risk and that they were taking steps to protect against any collection of sensitive information, and they   wanted to wait until the balloon was over water to protect civilians from any potential falling debris after a shoot down. So, on Saturday, the U.S. military did shoot that balloon down off the coast of South Carolina. Afterwards, China saying that the U.S. government   overreacted and seriously violated international practice. The U.S. secretary of state had canceled a trip to China after the appearance of the   balloon on Thursday, so this event is causing even more tension between the two nations. A second balloon carrying similar surveillance equipment has been seen flying over Central and South America and a senior U.S. defense official   said Saturday that China flew surveillance balloons over the United States in three instances during the Trump administration but never for this long.   All of this is raising questions about these aircraft and the threat they might pose. Here`s CNN White House correspondent Arlette Saenz with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  President Biden told his top military leaders in a meeting on Wednesday to shoot down that Chinese spy   balloon transiting over the U.S. as soon as possible. The president heard advice from military leaders who warned that shooting anything down over   land, over ground could pose a risk to American lives so ultimately the president heeded their advice and waited to have this balloon shot down   until it was over the waters on Saturday afternoon. President Biden was briefed on those final plans, Friday evening. And ultimately, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin gave that final go-ahead shortly after noon on Saturday. Now, the president was flying on Air Force   One from Syracuse, New York, to Maryland, and was on the phone with his top officials as this operation was underway. And here`s what he had to tell   reporters about the considerations given to that decision. JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  On Wednesday, when I was briefed on the balloon, I ordered the Pentagon to shoot it down on   Wednesday as soon as possible. They decided -- without doing damage to anyone on the ground, they decided that the best time to do that was they   got over water outside -- within our -- within the 12-mile limit. They successfully took it down and I want to compliment our aviators who did it   and we`ll have more to report on this a little later. Thank you. REPORTER:  Mr. President, what do you say about China? What`s your message to China? REPORTER:  You were saying the recommendation from your -- was from your national security --   BIDEN:  I told them to shoot it down. REPORTER:  Oh Wednesday? BIDEN:  On Wednesday. REPORTER:  But the recommendation --   BIDEN:  They said to me, let`s wait until the safest place to do it. SAENZ:  Republicans were quick to criticize President Biden for not taking steps to down this balloon sooner. Republicans have argued that this is a   sign of weakness in the White House`s approach towards China.  But the White House has pushed back, saying that this was a responsible action for a commander-in-chief to take. They are arguing that what the   president was trying to do was prioritize saving American lives. Now, there are lawmakers on both sides of the aisle who are calling for briefings and hearings into this matter and the so-called Gang of Eight   congressional leaders will receive a briefing from Biden administration officials next week, as there are still so many outstanding questions about   how this incident unfolded. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  This is the portion of this balloon that investigators want to get their hands on, that payload -- a central core   and what looked like a couple of solar arrays on either side. When the balloon was destroyed, you could clearly see it falling away below.  Now if this had the mass of a human like a skydiver, it might be falling at 100, 150 miles an hour, something like that. If it had the mass of a couple   of cars, its terminal velocity might have been more like 500 miles an hour or up from that. What that means is when it got to this area, just off   Myrtle Beach, the water would be essentially like concrete, it would hit it with tremendous force and be absolutely misshapen, torn apart, broken up by   this impact. What does that mean to recovery? What it means is the first thing they have to do when they get settled out there is get divers down 47 feet down.   That`s good. That`s a good workable depth.  There, they have to look at this, figure out how many pieces it`s in, where they are, assess it, figure out if some of it is buried down in the muck   below, and then come up with a list of priorities. What do they want to bring up first? How do they want to bring it up to protect all of this as   much as they can and how long it`s going to take? These operations typically are longer than most people expect even though they believe this one could be pretty fast. Think of it this way, this is   like an underwater crime scene now, and they have to protect their evidence as best they can if they want to learn all they can about this balloon. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which of these locations holds the current record for the highest officially registered temperature? Kuwait, Iran, California, or Texas? California`s Death Valley hit 134 degrees Fahrenheit in 1913, at a location appropriately named Furnace Creek Ranch. Right now, it is far from blazing in the United States, especially in the Northeast where there have been record low temperatures this past weekend.   Take a look at these numbers, a cold front brought dangerous wind chill temperatures throughout New York, the New England states, and up into   Canada. This cold front comes a week after an ice storm in Texas canceled flights and left hundreds of thousands of homes without power. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) GLORIA PAZMINO, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Record low at temperatures across the region, but here in New York City, right outside of Central Park, people   have been doing what they do best here in New York. They have been braving the elements all day. I`ve been speaking with tourists and New Yorkers who   are unfazed by the cold temperatures.  All day, I`ve been watching my friend here Gamal (ph) who is running this hot dog cart here. He had a hard time this morning trying to get it set up   because his generator had actually frozen, the oil in the gas that was inside of it. He had a hard time getting it set up.  And he`s told me that business is a little bit slow today, right? Not so good not many people out here in these cold temperatures, and just take a   look -- this bottle of water -- frozen solid. It has been frozen all day. That should give you an idea of just how cold it is here.  But as I said, New Yorkers, those who are visiting for the most part taking it in stride. If you are going to go outside in these very cold   temperatures, to dress appropriately, wear your layers and if you don`t need to, it`s probably best to stay home. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And for today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, let`s go to Mount Washington, New Hampshire, where it was colder than a polar bear`s toenail.   Coldest wind chill ever recorded in the United States, negative 108 degrees Fahrenheit. This happened over the weekend, wind gusts reaching 98 miles   per hour. That would be like a category 2 hurricane.  Experts say it would take less than 60 seconds to get frostbite in those temperatures. One meteorologist there said that his wrist was exposed   between his coat and gloves and it felt like being continuously stung by a bee. That is unbeelievably cold.  All right. You already snow what time it is. Shout out to Bucks County Technical High School in Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania -- rise up. We only   get 86,400 seconds in a day, and when they`re gone, they`re gone forever. So live with a sense of urgency today. Don`t take any moment for granted.  I`m Coy Wire, headed to Phoenix. So I`ll see you from there tomorrow, right here on CNN 10.   END     

Date: 2023-02-07
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, lovely people? Terrific Tuesday to you. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN, coming to you from Phoenix, Arizona, this week - - home to cacti, beautiful skies, Super Bowl LVII this Sunday and much, much more. Now behind me is Piestewa Peak, one of the highest points of the Phoenix Mountains, named in honor of Lori Ann Piestewa, a United States Army   soldier who became the first known Native American woman to die in combat while serving our nation. We`re going to start with the latest news out of Turkey, a country that sits partly in Asia and partly in Europe. A powerful 7.8 magnitude   earthquake occurred Monday in Turkey and parts of Syria, which collapsed thousands of buildings, killing more than 3,000 people. It created a new   humanitarian disaster in a region already strained by war, a refugee crisis and deep economic troubles. Turkey hosts 3.6 million Syrian refugees, the   most in the world. And governments from around the world have been quick to respond to Turkey`s request for international assistance. Videos shared from Turkey   and across the border in Syria showed the extent of the damage. We`ll keep you updated as the situation continues to unfold. Here`s CNN meteorologist Karen Maginnis helping us understand why earthquakes occur so frequently in Turkey and why this one was so   consequential. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KAREN MAGINNIS, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Now this is real time. These are some of the aftershocks. And this is an interesting trajectory, just kind of   this geometry of where that energy was lying as it just kind of raced along that fault line. And this is one of the most active seismic areas in the entire world. That`s because we`ve got a lot of tectonic plates moving around across this   region, we`ve got a lot of rift zones, and this is illustrative of just how devastating these earthquakes can be. Now most of these earthquakes are not major earthquakes. But this one 7.8. It rivals one that occurred in northeastern Turkey in 1939. There were   16,000, 17,000 fatalities associated with that. It was at the same magnitude. This earthquake was shallow that means the effects are going to be felt much more severely than if it were much further down into the core of the   earth. All right. Here are these tectonic plates I was talking about essentially these are constantly shifting. There are always earthquakes somewhere in   this region being reported, but this one happened to be a major earthquake and devastating. This is devastating, one that will be in the record books. We`ll remember February 2023 for this massive violent earthquake that took place in south   central Turkey that has interrupted so many people`s lives, but not just in Turkey, in Israel, in Jordan, in Syria where so many displaced people are   currently located. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  January`s U.S. jobs report surprised a lot of economists. The results showed far more jobs added than expected and the unemployment rate   fell to 3.4 percent, the lowest since May of 1969. With America adding more than half a million jobs last month, we`re getting more surprising clues   about the overall state of the U.S. economy, and it comes as the country grapples with the impact and usefulness of new artificial intelligence   platforms. Some worry that one day sooner than later a plethora of jobs could be taken away, from real humans and given to robots and computers that could   presumably do the work faster, cheaper, et cetera. CNN business and politics correspondent Vanessa Yurkevich sat down with an expert to discuss whether this threat is real or imagined. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS & POLITICS CORRESPONDENT:  Which jobs is AI coming after first? SHELLY PALMER, PROFESSOR OF ADVANCED MEDIA:  If you`re a middle manager, you`re doomed. Any kind of commodity sales person, report writers and   journalists, accountants and bookkeepers and oddly enough doctors who are looking -- who specialize in things like drug interactions. YURKEVICH:  Do you mean out of a job --   PALMER:  No. YURKEVICH:  -- or you mean that part of your job? PALMER:  That one. YURKEVICH:  OK. That`s the relief a lot of Americans are looking for right now. Will it take my job? PALMER:  Yes and no. It`s not going to replace you. Someone who knows how to use it well is going to take your job and that`s a guarantee. YURKEVICH:  By 2025, the World Economic Forum predicts that 85 million jobs will be displaced by automation and technology, but it will also create 97   million new roles. We`ve seen it before in the auto industry. PALMER:  While the auto worker may be displaced because they are not as good at welding or as painting as the robot, there`s probably 35 people   that have to be involved in the creation and maintenance of that device that welds better than a person. YURKEVICH:  And that`s what happened at Carbon Robotics, former auto workers now building an AI laser weeder in Detroit for farms. The laser   weeder still operated by a human but run by AI can do the work of between 40 to 50 people says the CEO, filling roles that are hard to find humans   for. This music is composed solely by artificial intelligence called AIVA. It even has an album you can stream. AI music is more affordable. There`s no   producer, composer or artist to pay. KARL FOWLKES, ENTERTAINMENT AND BUSINESS ATTORNEY:  It`s taken away opportunity from songwriters, producers and artists, right? So the people   are trying to feed them for their families. YURKEVICH:  Something similar is happening in the art world. Leading artist Kara Ortiz and two others to file a class-action lawsuit against three AI   art companies for copyright infringement. Ortiz claims they`re using her name and art to train the AI. KARA ORTIZ, ARTIST:  It`s feast and famine for most of us we go job by job, and what happens when there`s a little bit less work to go around? ROBOT:  My father tried to teach me human emotions. PALMER:  There`s a wonderful scene in the movie "I, Robot". Detective Spooner hates robots, he says. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Can a robot write a symphony? Can a robot turn a canvas into a beautiful masterpiece? PALMER:  And the robot looks up and goes, can you? Every one of us is not Mozart or Rembrandt or Picasso or choose your super famous amazing artist or artisan. We`re just people. This is not coming to   kill us. It`s coming to help us. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Located in midtown Manhattan, which of these sports facilities has dubbed the "World`s Most Famous Arena"? Churchill Downs, Yankee Stadium, Madison Square Garden or Silverstone Circuit? The correct answer here is Madison Square Garden, often referred to as The Garden. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And up next, most of us have heard of facial recognition technology. The software capable of matching a human face from a digital image or video   against real faces in real time, or a database of faces. While the technology is being praised as a way to heighten security and can make   things like unlocking your phone quicker and easier, some view it as an invasion of privacy. What do you think? Here`s CNN correspondent Omar Jimenez from inside New York City`s Madison Square Garden. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You`ve come up on (INAUDIBLE) matching somebody on our facial recognition list. OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over):  He was recognized on facial recognition cameras, then confronted. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Are you Benjamin Noren? BENJAMIN NOREN, LAWYER:  Yes. JIMENEZ:  This is how lawyer Benjamin Noren, from one New York City law firm, was greeted by Madison Square Garden staff while trying to attend an   event in the fall. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The ticket has been revoked and you are not permitted in the building. JIMENEZ:  It`s because Noren works for a law firm representing ticket brokers in a lawsuit against Madison Square Garden Entertainment. All of   the roughly 60 lawyers at his firm are also banned until the litigation is resolved. Some experts believe it`s a slippery slope, and not just the discretionary power of who else could be flagged in the future, but one method being used   to enforce it, even if it is legal. DAVE MAASS, DIRECTOR OF INVESTIGATIONS, ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION:  I have read their privacy policy. They explicitly say that the biometrics   they capture from you can be used for any purpose that would -- that would benefit their economic interest. JIMENEZ:  Some don`t believe it should be used at all. ALBERT FOX CAHN, FOUNDER, SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY OVERSIGHT PROJECT:  And I am terrified of the day where we allow companies to use so many forms of   tracking and surveillance that, you know, we end up in the middle of one of the largest cities on the planet without any place we can actually go,   while keeping our privacy. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, we`re talking about the world`s oldest dog again. Two weeks ago, we brought you Spike, a 23-year-  old Chihuahua mix from Ohio who was named the oldest living dog. But along comes Bobi and Bobi`s like not so fast my man`s best friend. Bobi is a   Portuguese mastiff from Portugal and at 30 years old, he has now been named the world`s oldest living dog by the Guinness World Records. Having lived twice his life expectancy, he`s also now considered officially the oldest dog to ever live. The previous record of 29 years in five months   was set back in the 1930s by an Australian cattle dog named Bluey. Bobi`s age has been confirmed by the veterinary medical service and a Portuguese pet database. Thirty years ago, that was 1993 when the World Wide Web was made available to the public for the first time. So, congrats Bobi, that`s a WWW to you. Also winning, Salinas South Middle School in Salina, Kansas -- shout out to you today. Thanks for coming, commenting and subscribing on our CNN 10   YouTube channel. Have a fan cactus day, y`all. From Arizona, all week, I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-02-08
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The speaker --   WILLIAM J. CLINTON, FORMER PRESIDENT:  Mr. Vice President --   RONALD REAGAN, FORMER PRESIDENT:  Distinguished members --   GEORGE H.W. BUSH, FORMER PRESIDENT:  Of the United States Congress. GEORGE W. BUSH, FORMER PRESIDENT:  Members of the Supreme Court --   GERALD FORD, FORMER PRESIDENT:  Distinguished guests --   RICHARD NIXON, FORMER PRESIDENT:  My fellow Americans --   JOHN F. KENNEDY, FORMER PRESIDENT:  I can report to you --   HARRY TRUMAN, FORMER PRESIDENT:  The state of --   FORD:  -- the Union --   DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT:  -- is stronger than ever before. FORD:  Think for a minute how --   G. H.W. BUSH:  Far --   CLINTON:  We`ve --   CARTER:  Come --   FORD:  In 200 years. NIXON:  We find ourselves challenged by new problems. FORD:  In this country --   REAGAN:  At home --   BARACK OBAMA, FORMER PRESIDENT:  And Abroad. TRUMP:  Our values are renewed. DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER, FORMER PRESIDENT:  There demanded of us. G. H.W. BUSH:  Vigilance. CARTER:  Determination. KENNEDY:  And dedication. CLINTON:  We must rise. NIXON:  To make. CARTER:  A nation. G. W. BUSH:  Better than --   CLINTON:  Any we have --   OBAMA:  Ever known. KENNEDY:  The road -- OBAMA:  Has been -- KENNEDY:  Long. TRUMAN:  The burden --   NIXON:  Heavy --   KENENDY:  And the pain --   G. H.W. BUSH:  This is --   G. W. BUSH:  -- not going to be --   CLINTON:  Easy. FORD:  We have --   KENNEDY:  Only begun. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Let us have. G. W. BUSH:  The will. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And the patience. NIXON:  To do. FORD:  This job. OBAMA:  Together --   TRUMAN:  We need many different kinds of strength. OBAMA:  Military --   REAGAN:  Economic --   G. H.W. BUSH:  Political --   TRUMAN:  And moral. REAGAN:  Nothing --   G. W. BUSH:  -- is impossible --   REAGAN:  No --   CLINTON:  Victory --   REAGAN:  -- is beyond our reach. No --   G. H.W. BUSH:  Glory --   REAGAN:  Will ever be too great. G. H.W. BUSH:  We are --   FORD:  Americans --   G. H.W. BUSH:  Part of --   OBAMA:  Something --   G. W. BUSH:  Larger --   G. H.W. BUSH:  Than ourselves. OBAMA:  God bless --   REAGAN:  You --   NIXON:  God --   G. W. BUSH:  Bless --   G. H.W. BUSH:  The United States --   FORD:  Of America. OBAMA:  Thank you. (END VIDEOTAPE) COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Just like presidents before him, many of those themes were discussed last night when U.S. President Joe Biden gave his   annual State of the Union Address to Congress. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, reporting from Phoenix, Arizona, for you all week long. The U.S. Constitution does not require a president to give this speech. In fact, Article II Section 3 only says, quote, he shall from time to time   give to the Congress information of the State of the Union and recommend to their consideration such measures as he shall judge necessary and   expedient. So the fact that this speech happens every year, that it`s done in person, that it`s televised, and the fact that it`s followed up by a response from   the opposing political party -- well, those are all traditions associated with the State of the Union, not requirements by the Constitution itself. Still, the event is an opportunity for the U.S. president to tout what he sees as successes by his administration and it`s an opportunity for the   opposing party to lay out a different vision for the country. This was President Biden`s second official State of the Union Address, but it was   first given to a divided Congress. After Republicans took control of the House of Representatives following last year`s midterm elections. Have a listen to some of the highlights of   what the president had to say. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  Folks, the story of America is a story of progress and resilience, of always moving forward, of never ever   giving up. It`s a story unique among all nations. We`re the only country that has emerged from every crisis we`ve ever entered stronger than we got   into it. Look, folks, that`s what we`re doing again. Two years ago, the economy was reeling. I stand here tonight after we`ve created with the help of many   people in this room 12 million new jobs, more jobs created in two years than any president`s created in four years because of you all, because of   the American people. (APPLAUSE) Two years ago -- and two years ago, COVID had shut down -- our businesses were closed, our schools were robbed of so much, and today, COVID no longer   controls our lives. And two years ago, democracy faced the greatest threat to the civil war and today, though bruised, our democracy remains unbowed   and unbroken. (APPLAUSE) As we gather here tonight, we`re writing the next chapter in the great American story, a story of progress and resilience. When world leaders   asked me to define America and they do believe it or not, I try to define it in one word, and I mean this -- possibilities. We don`t think anything   is beyond our capacity, everything is a possibility. You know we`re often told that Democrats and Republicans can`t work together, but over the past   two years, we`ve proved the cynics and naysayers wrong. Yes, we disagreed plenty and yes, there were times when Democrats went alone. But time and again, Democrats and Republicans came together, came   together to defend us stronger and safer Europe. It came together to pass one in the -- one in a generation, once in a generation infrastructure law,   building bridges connecting our nation and our people. In fact, I signed over 300 bipartisan pieces of legislation since becoming president, from reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act, the Electoral   Count Reform Act, the Respect for Marriage Act that protects the right to marry the person you love. And to my Republican friends, if we could work   together the last Congress, there`s no reason we can`t work together and find consensus on important things in this Congress as well. (APPLAUSE) Well, folks, so let`s look at the results. We`re not finished yet by any stretch of the imagination, but the unemployment rate is at 3.4 percent, a   50-year low. A near record -- a near record unemployment, near record unemployment for Black and Hispanic workers. We`ve already created your help eight hundred   thousand good paying manufacturing jobs, the fastest growth in 40 years. So, I`ve come to fulfill my constitutional obligation to report in the State of the Union and here`s my report, because the soul of this nation is   strong, because the backbone of this nation is strong, because the people of this nation are strong, the State of the Union is strong. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Now, as for the tradition of the opposing political party`s response to the state of the union address, it started in the 1960s and it`s a   speech given by Republicans when there`s a Democratic president and by Democrats when there`s a Republican president. Last night, the rebuttal came from Republican Governor Sarah Huckabee Sanders of Arkansas. Sanders became Arkansas`s first female governor after   she was elected in November. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) GOV. SARAH HUCKABEE SANDERS (R), ARKANSAS:  From out-of-control inflation and violent crime, to the dangerous border crisis and threat from China,   Biden and the Democrats have failed you. They know it and you know it, and it`s time for a change. Tonight, let us reaffirm our commitment to a timeless American idea, that government exists not to rule the people but to serve the people. Democrats   want to rule us with more government control, but that`s not who we are. America is the greatest country the world has ever known because we`re the   freest country the world has ever known, with the people who are strong and resilient. President Biden inherited the fastest economic recovery on record, the most secure border in history, cheap, abundant, homegrown energy, fast rising   wages, a rebuilt military and a world that was stable and at peace. But over the last two years, Democrats destroyed it all, a new generation of Republican leaders are stepping up not to be caretakers of the status   quo but to be change makers for the American people. We know not what the future holds but we know who holds the future in his hands. And with God as   our witness, we will show the world that America is still the place where freedom reigns and liberty will never die. Thank you. God bless you and God bless America. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which of these painters was known for his "drip technique" of splashing paint onto a surface? Salvador Dali, Jackson Pollock, Claude Monet, or Pablo Picasso? Modern American painter Jackson Pollock became famous for us look out I`m about to splatter some paint technique in the mid-1950s. In today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, an accidental art installation on a highway in Australia. Take a look at this -- a cargo truck on the highway   lost control and spilled more than 260 gallons of paint. That`s enough paint for hundreds of canvases and aren`t the results just so perfectly and   perfect it turned the coastal area into a scene that would certainly catch the attention of Jackson Pollock. Hang this one in the Louvre, people. All right. I want to give a special shout out to Hyatts Middle School in Powell, Ohio, for the work of art you created in the comments section of   our CNN 10 YouTube Channel and my @CoyWire social accounts. Thanks for the love and go Eagles. All right. My perfectly imperfect people out there -- remember, of the nearly 8 billion people on this planet, there is no one in the world like   you. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-02-09
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, everyone, it`s your boy Coy coming to you from Super Bowl radio row here in Phoenix, Arizona, ahead of Sunday`s big   game between the Philadelphia Eagles and the Kansas City Chiefs. We have a great show for you today, but not a lot of time to do it, so let`s get to it. Now, we do have to start with some sad news out of Turkey and Syria -- an update on the earthquake we told you about earlier this week. The death   toll from the devastating earthquake in Turkey and Syria continues to rise, with upwards of 11,000 people dead when we recorded our show. Additionally,   eight agencies and experts warned that time is running out to help rescue people stuck in the rubble who may still be alive. In addition, tens of   thousands of people have been injured. The earthquake with a 7.8 magnitude struck Turkey a neighboring Syria on Monday. The quake is one of the strongest to hit the region in more than   100 years. Additionally, rescuers have faced shortages of trucks fuel and time to deliver aid to impacted areas. Thousands of buildings collapsed and aid   agencies are particularly worried about northwestern Syria where more than 4 million people were already relying on humanitarian assistance. To make matters worse, freezing weather conditions are further endangering survivors and complicating rescue efforts as more than 100 aftershocks have   struck the region. We`ll hear now from CNN correspondent Salma Abdelaziz who is joining us from Istanbul to describe the efforts of survivors and what`s happening   currently in the region. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  We`re at a buzzing aid distribution center here in the center of Istanbul. There are hundreds of volunteers,   municipal workers, all here to try and help those in the earthquake zone. You can see them right here. They`re packing food. Everything you`re looking at here has been donated by individuals, by families, by businesses   donations that people want to see go to that affected area. So, they`re packing these boxes really with the basics. I want to show you here. We`ve got diapers, clothes, juice boxes for kids -- I mean, anything   you can imagine, mostly, of course, non-medical aid here, just individuals and businesses doing what they can. Of course, Turkey is receiving help from dozens of countries. I think over 70 countries have pledged help to Turkey, but there is a sense that Turks   want to help each other, real community spirit here. Volunteers tell us they`ve been able already to send dozens of trucks, tons of aid and it just   keeps coming. An absolutely humongous catastrophe, the scope and scale of it almost incomprehensible, and so, there can never be enough of this help. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which of these U.S. government agencies forecast weather and monitors ocean conditions? FAA, NASA, NOAA, or DOJ? These duties fall under the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration known as NOAA. Now, part of the mission of NOAA is to better understand storms and the potential impact they may have when they make landfall. And one way NOAA   pilots collect data is by flying over hurricanes and sometimes directly into them with special equipped aircraft through their Hurricane Hunter   Program. Fasten your seat belts y`all, this could get bumpy. Time to learn some more as we go navigate some unfriendly skies above the storm. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LT. CMDR. DANIELLE VARWIG, PILOT/NOAA CORPS:  Flying over a hurricane, it`s otherworldly. It gives me a little bit of euphoria. Pilots are taught to   not fly near these things and here I am flying at 45,000 feet above it all for the sake of national safety. REPORTER:  Former U.S. Air Force pilot, Lieutenant Commander Danielle Varwig, is a hurricane hunter pilot for NOAA, the National Oceanic and   Atmospheric Administration. VARWIG:  Of course, I get nervous before every flight. REPORTER:  NOAA pilots like Varwig fly over and into storms and hurricanes across the western Atlantic, the Caribbean, and the Gulf of Mexico,   collecting weather data to help forecast where and when these events will make landfall. VARWIG:  Most of the time, we`re in the clouds and now we`re trusting our instruments and trusting our flight directors on board with us to navigate   around it. REPORTER:  Flight director Nikki Hathaway is often by her side, using radar data to help the pilots navigate through the storm. NIKKI HATHAWAY, NOOA FLIGHT DIRECTOR:  Yeah, it`s a bumpy ride. I would say if you are not a fan of roller coasters, it`s probably not the job for you.   Essentially on this aircraft, it`s a flying science lab. The data that we`re collecting on board essentially goes back down to the National   Hurricane Center and a variety of other researchers and this data is being used real time to make life-saving decisions impacting the people on the   ground potentially in harm`s way. REPORTER:  That data helps protect millions of people across North and Central America and the Caribbean. HATHAWAY:  You`re always thinking about those people in harm`s way, and when it is your people, you know, when it`s impacting your home, there`s   that extra element of just like stress in the back of your head, but it`s really important to compartmentalize those feelings to get the job done. REPORTER:  Neither Varwig nor Hathaway flew this season, but over the past couple of years, they`ve been deployed for days, weeks, sometimes months at   a time. VARWIG:  It is hard to be away from my kids. The one thing that pushes me through dealing with the separation from my family is the fact that I am   serving my country. REPORTER:  That mission to serve to keep others safe come hail or shine is what sets these women apart. VARWIG:  I want to put myself out there if anything to be a role model to little girls, little black girls. I want to make sure that others can look   to me and say, okay, well, she`s doing it, then I can, too. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right. Sports history was made Tuesday night when Los Angeles Lakers star LeBron James became the NBA`s all-time leading scorer, breaking   the record of 38,387 points set more than 38 years ago by another Lakers legend Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. LeBron entered the league out of high school in 2003 as an 18-year-old from Akron, Ohio. And now at 38, he`s still going strong. He`s been a driving   force for creating change from speaking up on social justice issues to creating the I Promise School in his home state. LeBron is also known for   his actions off the court. Our CNN 10 special guest Omar Jimenez is in Los Angeles covering this historic moment. (BEGIN VIDSEOTAPE) OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  People came to see history and they witnessed it. LeBron James now the all-time leading scorer in NBA history,   and he would be the first to admit that he didn`t think he would be the one to break what some thought was a previously unbreakable record. But when you look at everything LeBron has done over the course of his career, who else would it have been? And the moment came on a Tuesday night. And when that happened, when he hit a fade away off the left elbow, almost nothing but net, he ran to center   court, raised his arms in triumph as an entire arena cheered him on, likely many more watching from home. He came to the center court and was greeted by his family as a crowd chanted MVP, he was emotional as Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, the person whose   record he now eclipsed, embraced him and greeted him along with the NBA commissioner. And when you look at LeBron James`s legacy, the on the court, of course, will be respected and always remembered. But the reaction and the embraces   that he had once he crossed that milestone or emblematic of who he is off the court. And for many, all of those come together in the legacy that is   LeBron James. And when you talk about the historic milestone that was crossed, it wasn`t just a moment in NBA history. For those watching and that have followed him   all around the world, this was a moment in history. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  In today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, it`s absolutely nuts. Lots of them. A pest control expert in California found more than 700 pounds of   acorns from behind a wall in a home in Glen Ellen, California. Now that`s a cornucopia. You`re probably thinking dang squirrels, why`d you go nuts in   that person`s wall like that? Turns out, woodpeckers were the culprits. Typically, this type of bird would peck away and drop thousands of acorns through a hole and store them   inside dying tree stumps but not these woodpeckers. Look out, because they could be coming to your neighborhood next. All right. Shout out time now. We`re going to Oceanside Middle School in Thomaston, Maine. We see you. We hope you and everyone watching around the   world have a wonderful one. Did you know that today, February 9th is National Pizza Day. Whether it`s New York style thin crust, Chicago style deep dish, or anything in between,   pizza is an American dream, and you all have a pizza our heart. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-02-10
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, lovely people? The weekend is just around the corner. Friday`s rock. We are fueled up, ready to share the best 10 minutes in the news with you. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. Let`s finish this week strong. We`re going to start today with an update from a story earlier this week, the Chinese spy balloon. The past few days, a new timeline of what happened   has come into focus, and it turns out, a day before the suspected Chinese spy balloon entered U.S. airspace over Alaska, the Defense Intelligence   Agency sent an internal report that a foreign object was headed towards U.S. territory, but the report was not flagged as urgent in top defense   officials weren`t immediately alarmed. But when the balloon entered Alaskan airspace and then turned south, officials began to think the balloon might have been sent as part of a spy   mission. And when the balloon hovered over areas in the United States that are deemed to places of top security, including sensitive military   facilities the real mission of the balloon came into focus. The Biden administration says the timeline of events helps explain why U.S. defense officials didn`t act immediately, even before the balloon had   crossed over into U.S. territory. But some Republicans have criticized the government for not acting sooner and not seeing the balloon as an urgent threat. They argued that they   should have shot the balloon down before it even crossed into the continental U.S. But other officials within the administration have argued   that the benefits of gathering additional intelligence on the balloon outweigh shooting it down immediately. We`ll keep you posted and updated as the situation unfolds. We`ll hear now from Selina Wang, a CNN correspondent based in Beijing, with more analysis. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SELINA WANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Beijing is hitting back at Washington`s statements about the suspected spy balloon. The Pentagon said on Tuesday   that China refused a conversation with U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin following the downing of the balloon. Well, now, China`s defense ministry   is saying they rejected that call because the conditions were not right, given the U.S.`s, quote, irresponsible and seriously wrong approach. We`ve seen Beijing`s rhetoric hardened significantly after the U.S. military shot down the balloon, after initially expressing regret for what   they claim is a weather balloon that flew off course. Beijing is now accusing the U.S. of overreacting and violating international practice. The contrast between what Beijing and Washington are claiming is only getting starker. You have China on one hand doubling down on its claim this   was a civilian balloon that took an unplanned course that was out of their control. On the other hand, the Pentagon has said it has 100 percent   certainty that the downed Chinese balloon was not being used for civilian purposes. CNN has reported that U.S. intelligence officials believe the balloon is part of an extensive military run surveillance program that involves a   fleet of balloons spanning five continents. China`s ministry of foreign affairs said that claim is, quote, likely part of the U.S.`s information   and public opinion warfare and accuse the U.S. of being the world`s largest surveillance reconnaissance country. The Pentagon has said that maintaining open lines of communication with China are particularly important in moments like this. The question still   remains as to whether this balloon incident will lead to long-term damage to the relationship between the U.S. and China that is already extremely   tense. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  A 7.8 magnitude earthquake shook Turkey and Syria in the early hours of Monday morning. It was so powerful   that it was felt as far as Cyprus, Lebanon and Israel. But this region is no stranger to earthquakes so why was this one so devastating. This is one of the strongest earthquakes to hit Turkey in about a century and it was followed by dozens of aftershocks, some almost as powerful as   the initial quake. And then there`s the question of how shallow this earthquake was at the epicenter, just 18 kilometers deep, causing severe   shaking on the ground. This is an earthquake more powerful than the one that hit Haiti in 2010, causing utter devastation. And this region is   located on a major fault line. In the disaster zone, thousands of homes have collapsed. Now many of Turkey`s apartment blocks are built to modern design standards but still   about 20 percent of its urban environment is not. And then when you take a look at Northwest Syria, well, that country has been battle scarred. There, many of the structures were extremely   susceptible to collapse. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: The Roman numeral LVII represents which of these numbers? 107, 52, 57, or 102? The answer is 57 and Super Bowl LVII kicks off this Sunday, marking the 57th edition of the big game. It`s estimated that two-thirds of the U.S. population watched last year`s Super Bowl. That`s more than 200 million people, and that`s why a 30-second   commercial during this year`s game cost $7 million. So, yeah, all eyes will be on Glendale, Arizona, this Sunday, when the Kansas City Chiefs face off   against the Philadelphia Eagles. Some watch the game for the commercials. Others watch for the halftime show, which this year will be headlined by none other than Rihanna. But no   matter how you look at it, the Super Bowl is big business. In fact, the Arizona Chamber of Commerce said last Super Bowl they hosted here in 2015   generated about $720 million for the city, but they`re expecting close to one billion dollars for this one. And for the first time, the area is expecting more than a million visitors to the city at the same time, with so much action happening in one place,   keeping the event fun and safe is a major concern for security experts. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over):  What are U.S. Customs and Border Protection helicopter - UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We`re flying about 500 feet. FLORES:  A U.S. Air Force KC-135 Stratotanker. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  All clear. FLORES:  And an F-16 fighter jet doing over Glendale, Arizona? They`re tasked with guarding the skies over Super Bowl LVII. With nearly 200,000 fans expected for the big game between the Kansas City Chiefs and   the Philadelphia Eagles, security is a multiagency effort. From this operations center, the FBI, alongside more than 40 federal, state and local law enforcement agencies will use these 360-degree cameras to   have eyes on every inch of the stadium. Sky patrol is in the hands of U.S. Customs and Border Protection Air and Marine Operations. When your teams are patrolling, what could they be looking for? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We`re going to look for anything out of the ordinary. It could be anything from smoke to disruptions. FLORES:  CBP Air and Marine Operations will be able to fly over the stadium during the big game, but no other aircraft will because the FAA will be   imposing a flight restriction that`s 30 miles wide. Those flight restrictions will be enforced by NORAD, the North American Aerospace Defense Command, with these Air Force F-16 fighter jets. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Since 9/11, we`ve been able to safely escort out any aircraft that`s violated restricted airspace. FLORES:  NORAD is taking no chances. This KC-135 Stratotanker is part of the fleet on hand. This aircraft can carry up to 200,000 pounds of fuel. There are 10 tanks on board including some on the wings. And it can refuel an F-16 midair in minutes. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It prevents us from having a return for fuel on the ground. So it`s absolutely critical. FLORES:  The fighter jets refuel from a receptacle that`s right behind the pilot. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And my job as the pilot is just to remain within the basket in a safe controlled stable position. If the FAA`s flight restrictions are broken, NORAD or CBP air and marine operations will engage. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Sunday`s game is considered one of the most evenly matched Super Bowls ever and experts are divided on who they think is going to win. But   for today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, what does the animal kingdom have to say? Apparently, a lot. In Iowa, a baby giraffe at the Blank Park Zoo stuck its neck out and chose the leafy snack that represented a Chiefs win. In   Maryland, a bear at the Salisbury zoo disagreed and went for the box with Eagles logo on it. Kansas, this orangutan said she`s sticking with her   hometown heroes, the Chiefs. But what about a groundhog? This one at the Turtle Back Zoo in New Jersey said, forget wintertime, she`s got the Eagles as champ. Let`s keep in touch this weekend. I`m @coywire on Insta, Snapchat and TikTok. We want to give a special shout out to Marrington middle school of   the Arts in Goose Creek, South Carolina, we see you. Remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2023-02-13
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hey, everyone. It`s your boy Coy. I hope you had an awesome Super Bowl Sunday filled with football friends, family and food.   Man, I love my wings. This is CNN 10. And we have a great show for you today, so let`s get started. February is black history month. It was chosen because it`s the second week of the month and coincides with the birthdays of Frederick Douglass and   Abraham Lincoln.  Today, we`re going to highlight a group of African-American female war heroes, specifically an all Black Women`s Army Corps, that sorted millions   of pieces of mail in unheated warehouses during World War II. Last year in 2022, they were awarded a Congressional Gold Medal, decades after the fact.   They were called the 6,888th Central Postal Directory Battalion nicknamed the 6888.  The unit was made up of about black women who were tasked with overcoming a massive backlog of mail. The unit traveled to Great Britain in 1945,   surviving encounters with Nazi U-boats in a German rocket explosion before spending months sorting through mail and packages. They adopted a motto and   it said, no mail, low morale. So they cleared the six-month backlog of mail in just three months. Now by the end of the war, the unit processed about million pieces of mail. CNN spoke to three of the living service women and we`re blessed to hear   their stories next. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) COL. EDNA CUMMINGS, U.S. ARMY (RET): People may not realize, but during World War II, there are more than 6,000 African-American women in the Army.   855th formed the 6888 Central Postal Directory Battalion, the only African- American women`s army corps unit to serve in Europe during World War II. The 6888 was formed to clear the multi-year backlog of mail for the 7   million Americans in the European theater of operations. FANNIE GRIFFIN MCCLENDON, FORMER 1LT., WOMEN`S ARMY CORPS AND MAJ. U.S. AIR FORCE (RET): Everybody expected mail from home and that was our complete   job was to make sure that we get the mail out to the different units.  LENA KING, FORMER CPL., WOMEN`S ARMY CORPS: They didn`t have computers. They didn`t have even television in those days. So mail was a very   important thing. CUMMINGS: As units of white women were being deployed overseas, First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt and Mary McLeod Bethune rallied to have black women   included in the war effort overseas. The women needed meaningful tasks a meaningful assignment to prove that black women could support the armed   forces, just as the white women did. The women first assignment was in Birmingham, England.  They arrived in February of 1945, working three shifts a day. They processed approximately 65,000 pieces of mail per shift for 90 days before   they moved on to Ruan and Paris, France. KING: It was hard blackout conditions. We had poor lighting, poor heating. We couldn`t let the sunlight in because they were still biting and bombing   in that area. People of Birmingham, England, treated us as heroes it was very different from some of the behavior of -- by terrorism and I should say. MCCLENDON: People segregated to the point where when we wanted to go to the base exchange, would give a risk to one person and they would go in and buy   we were not allowed to go in. They even post exchange. We had our own quarters. We had our own unit. KING: I`m sure that you have seen how service people were heralded. Johnny comes marching home parade. Our dismissal was quiet and unpronounced. It   was at least we simply came home. INDIANA HUNT-MARTIN, FORMER PFC., WOMEN`S ARMY CORPS: We were just soldiers coming home. We`d want to done a good job and come on like the rest of the   soldiers. There was nobody mentioned that. Nobody even said nothing about - - for about 70 years later. That`s when we started understanding what a good job we did, but otherwise, nobody mentioned about them black or white   WACs do nothing.  CUMMINGS: I think there`s an opportunity now to correct the wrong. The highest award the 6888 can receive and should receive is the Congressional   Gold Medal. They deserve their place in history to secure their legacy, along with the other recipients of the war, the Tuskegee Airmen, the   Montford Marines, the Women Air Service Pilots and many others whose service has been recognized as making a significant contribution to our   nation. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: On this vote, the yeas are 422, the nays are zero. SUBTITLE: In 2022, Congress voted unanimously to award the women of the 6888th Battalion with congressional gold medals. Just 6 of the women who   served with the 6888th are believed to be alive.  KING: We want to leave a legacy that we have done something that is remarkable. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten-second trivia, what is the state nickname of California? The Natural State, The Evergreen State, The Golden State or The Palmetto State? The 31st state in the Union is nicknamed The Golden State. Up next, a study released last week shows the world is producing a record amount of single-use plastic waste, the material which is convenient   durable and cost effective can present environmental challenges when not managed properly. In July, California became the first U.S. state to   announce targets to reduce the amount of single-use plastic. Trash in all its forms is an ever-growing challenge for major cities.  We`ll hear now from Richard Quest, CNN anchor and correspondent, he`s taking us to Los Angeles where the city is using a barge to capture   floating trash in waterways before it reaches the ocean. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RICHARD QUEST, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The beautiful beaches of Los Angeles are known around the world from their cameos on the silver screen.   In real life, Hollywood`s home base is far from picture perfect.  The city faces a major villain -- trash, garbage, rubbish and the problem is, it`s getting worse.  BOYAN SLAT, FOUNDER AND CEO, THE OCEAN CLEANUP: Even though the waste management is pretty good in the United States, not a lot of waste is, is   ending up in the environment. If you have 10 million people living here, even just a small fraction of waste not being managed is -- adds up to   quite a significant amount of trash coming down this river. QUEST: Now the city is turning to a new hero to defend its rivers. The Interceptor 007, it`s all part of an organization called The Ocean Cleanup.   This machine traps the garbage that originates in places like Beverly Hills and Hollywood. STEVEN FRASHER, PUBLIC INFORMATION OFFICER, LOS ANGELES COUNTY PUBLIC WORKS: The Interceptor is an opportunity to have a last line of defense on   this urban waterway. We try all kinds of measures from public education to trash booms further up the creek, but nothing can be quite as effective as   right here next to the ocean. And these beaches on Santa Monica Bay are some of the most famous beaches in America. So we really want to keep these clean for public health for   tourism for wildlife. We have volunteers that go to extraordinary efforts to do their part in cleaning up. QUEST: The group already has interceptors in places like Malaysia and Vietnam, each one takes half a million dollars to build and deploy. SLAT: What we do see is that there`s the cost of not intercepting plastic in a river is many, many times higher than if you were to intercept it,   because it`s damaging ecosystems, it`s damaging tourism, it`s damaging fisheries. So it`s just very expensive to let this trash go into the ocean.  So we are confident that ultimately, governments will step up and will want to adopt these Interceptors. QUEST: An army of interceptors is the group`s long-term aim. They`re hoping to deploy in a thousand rivers around the world. Not like the robot armies   of the big screen, this one is fighting for a cleaner future. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: And today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, this event deserves a round of a-paws, I love it, for real. Check out the annual golden`s in golden   event. It`s a festival celebrating golden retrievers that takes place in Golden, Colorado. This year, over 1,000 Golden retrievers and their owners   filled the streets the celebration now in its third year was held on the Saturday closest to National Golden Retrievers Day which is February 3rd. Now on to our favorite part of the day, shout out time. We`re getting a special shout out to Central Middle School in Omaha, Nebraska. We see you,   and we hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END   

Date: 2023-02-14
WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, lovely people? Terrific Tuesday to you. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, where we put together the best minutes in   news for you. So let`s maximize these moments, get a little smarter and wiser and have a little fun while doing it. We start today`s episode by talking about the   air up there.  Is it just me or does it feel like America just can`t escape these mysterious threats we`ve been seeing from the sky? It started a week ago   with the incident involving a suspected Chinese spy balloon which was shot down off the South Carolina coast on February 4th, and the deepening   national security mystery keeps evolving with U.S. fighter jets blasting three unidentified objects out of the skies three days in a row now.  The latest incident was a high altitude object shot down on Sunday by an F- 16 over Lake Huron which lies between Michigan and Ontario. On Saturday, a missile took down an object flying at 40,000 feet over Central Yukon, way   up in northwestern Canada.  And that`s just some of the aerial action that`s happened in the last few days. No one within the Pentagon, the White House or the government of   Canada seems to be able to say what exactly in the world is going on.  We`ll hear from CNN White House reporter Natasha Bertrand who`s been following this story and in the coming weeks as this story continues to   unfold, you know we`ll keep you up to date right here on CNN 10.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER (voice-over):  The U.S. on edge, dispatching fighter jets to shoot down yet another mysterious object near   Michigan`s Lake Huron on Sunday. The incident is the third time in as many days that the U.S. military has shot down an unidentified object that was assessed to pose a risk to   civilian aircraft and unprecedented series of events. GEN. GLEN VANHERCK, COMMANDER OF NORAD AND USNORTHCOM:  I believe this is the first time within the United States of America airspace that NORAD or   United States northern command has taken kinetic action against an airborne object. BERTRAND:  On Friday and Saturday, U.S. jets shot down two more objects near Alaska and over northern Canada. Those objects were flying at around   forty thousand feet and had balloon-like features with a small metal cylinder underneath officials said. Sunday`s object over Lake Huron was flying at around twenty thousand feet and it was described by officials as octagonal with potential surveillance   capabilities. The incidents have sparked confusion and prompted bipartisan criticism from lawmakers. REP. JIM HIMES (D-CT), RANKING, INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE:  I have real concerns about why the administration is not being more forthcoming with   everything that it knows. But part of the problem here is that the both of the second and the third objects were shot down in very remote areas. So,   my guess is that that there`s just not a lot of information out there yet to share. BERTRAND:  After a Chinese spy balloon transited the U.S. earlier this month and was also shot down, the North American aerospace defense command   readjusted its filters to better spot slow-moving targets operating above a certain altitude officials said, which may be leading to more detections.  But officials say they won`t know more about the objects until they can recover and analyze all of the debris. The incidents have also raised   questions about whether similar objects have simply gone undetected in the past and whether shooting each one down is the right response. REP. MIKE TURNER (R-OH):  What`s been come clear in the public discussion is that we don`t really have adequate radar systems. We certainly don`t   have an integrated missile defense system. We`re going to have to begin to look at the United States airspace as one that we need to defend and that   we need to have appropriate sensors to do so. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Of the original 13 colonies, which was the last to be established? Georgia, Rhode Island, North Carolina or Virginia? Founded in 1732, Georgia was created as a buffer between South Carolina and the Spanish in Florida. Up next, we`re headed to the barrier islands off southeastern Georgia. The region is home to miles of undeveloped beaches, seaside forests, salt   marshes and a proposed spaceport hoping to launch rockets directly over the national seashore. This has been quite the controversial topic as you can   imagine for nearby communities.  The residents, they don`t want their serene and undisturbed lands to be altered. Let`s go on the ground to this beautiful region for more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JIM RENNER, RESIDENT:  Directly across the river right there in those trees, that`s the spaceport site and actually the proposed launch pad site.   It`s crazy to propose to launch rockets over Cumberland Island national seashore.  REPORTER:  This is Cumberland Island and Little Cumberland Island. They`re two barrier islands that form part of a wildlife sanctuary off the   southeastern coast of Georgia, but a proposed spaceport is hoping to send rockets directly over the national seashore, altering the horizon and   stirring controversy in the secluded community. The proposed rocket would also travel over private homes on Little Cumberland Island. This is   something that`s unprecedented. SUE HUFF, RESIDENT:  My house is five miles downrange from the launch pad. My understanding is I`m directly in the middle of the cone. The fear of   rockets going over my head is the failure rate. And with a high failure rate, the concern is debris falling on my property on me. REPORTER:  Small class rockets like the one Spaceport Camden hopes to launch can have up to a 20 percent failure rate. Several of these small   class rockets have experienced issues in recent years, showing what can happen when these types of rockets fail.  The odds of a direct impact crash are extremely low, but many residents feel there is no acceptable amount of risk when humans are in the rocket`s   path. RENNER:  This is part of the Cumberland Island national seashore, and the idea that Camden County thinks they can safely launch rockets over an area   like this where there`s no opportunity to monitor whether people are here or not, there`s no opportunity to bring firefighting equipment on here and   to fight a fire in maritime forests like this, it`s just ridiculous. So this is a firebox, one of several that we have stationed along the trails around Little Cumberland Island.  This is our fire station. We`ve got slappers for putting out if there`s a, you know, flames in a ground fire, rakes and they`ve got a hand operated   pump. So take that exploding rocket. STEVE HOWARD, FORMER SPACEPORT CAMDEN PROJECT LEAD:  There`s all kinds of you know risks that you have to look at and you have to evaluate it, all   those things will be looked at when a company comes forward. You have to prepare for all those things, but they`re very remote that that would   happen the likelihood of somebody getting hurt worse. Numbers I looked at range from between and million to one in a billion with a B. This is more   than just launching rockets. It`s about all the opportunities to inspire the next generation. Spaceport Camden will become the Silicon marsh of the   East Coast. REPORTER:  In addition to the safety concerns, skeptics point out that the outcome of space will come in is by no means guaranteed and therefore not   worth the hefty price tag. Camden County has spent more than $12 million dollars on the project over the last decade. That`s taxpayer money some   residents say they wish could be spent elsewhere.  The FAA has licensed 14 spaceports across the United States but Spaceport Camden would be the first private spaceport to launch rockets vertically   over U.S. citizens a few miles away.  And then there`s the potential ecological risks within national park in the proposed trajectory. HOWARD:  What you do in a launch side application process is really a represented rocket. We hope some of those companies at some point will   actually come here, you know, in the future. But at this point, it`d be representative. It was never about the rockets that becomes a catalyst   economic driver, but you want all this innovation, you want all this high- tech opportunity. You want to drive that innovation and lift up the whole coast of Georgia. REPORTER:  After a series of delays, the county secured a spaceport operator license from the FAA in late 2021. But Camden County residents   petitioned for a special election where they overwhelmingly voted to block the county from purchasing the land for the spaceport. In February 2023,   Georgia`s Supreme Court unanimously rejected an appeal by Camden County officials, preventing the coastal community from moving forward with the   spaceport. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 -- an owl taking up residence in a library of Agnes Scott College in Georgia for almost a week. After   flying in through a chimney, it took days for the school to remove the feathery friend before it was finally released outside on Friday. Students   were finally able to use the library again. I`m telling you, the whole ordeal has become a joke around campus. That poor bird just didn`t want to be like Celine Dion. I will by myself. Oh,   gosh, I should never sing ever again.  All right, lovely people. Special shout out to Woodbridge High School in Woodbridge, New Jersey. And Happy Valentine`s Day to you and you and you from me and my team. We`re putting up our heart hands for you. Today is a great opportunity to spread   some love and appreciation, so go on out and make someone smile today. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-02-15
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. Wonderful Wednesday to you. It`s your boy Coy. Grateful to be spending part of our day right here with   you on CNN 10. You know, sometimes when tragedy strikes, it can serve as a reminder that we should never take any of the moments we`re given for granted. We`re   starting with an update on the earthquake that has shattered families in Turkey and Syria. The 7.8 magnitude quake had taken the lives of more than   36,000 people as of the time of this show`s recording. Tens of thousands more are injured. The latest report from Turkey`s health ministry said more than 19,000 people were hospitalized with injuries sustained from the disaster in more   than one thousand children in Turkey were separated from their parents. More than a week now after the earthquake struck and rescuers are still   working around the clock in hopes of saving lives. Seven more people were rescued from the rubble yesterday but hopes of finding further survivors   dwindle with every second that passes. The reality is that survival stories are becoming few and far between as rescue operations start to shift recovery efforts. And for many in Syria, the earthquake is just the latest in a decade-long series of tragedies. In recent years, the country has been torn apart and   1.7 million people are living in tents in refugee camps. CNN`s Nada Bashir is in Istanbul where a massive effort to send aid is currently underway. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NADA BASHIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, a week on since Turkey was struck by devastating earthquake on Monday, and aid centers like this one here are   still being filled with volunteers, with donations to be distributed to those impacted by the earthquake. And as you can see here, boxes and boxes   are being filled up with life-saving humanitarian assistance, and crucial donations for those impacted by the earth (INAUDIBLE), clothes, blankets,   to toiletries, anything that someone who has been made homeless, displaced by the devastation could need in order to survive over the next few weeks. And there are aid centers like this one you can see the sheer scale of this hangar where the aid donations are coming in. There are centers like this   across the country because of course as we are still seeing the death tolls rising and we are still seeing miraculously survivors being pulled out of   the rubble. This is now becoming more of a recovery effort than a rescue effort and there are of course thousands and thousands of people, of   families, extremely vulnerable now, desperately in need, hugely dependent on that humanitarian assistance between aid groups from across the globe,   traveling into Turkey to support in that effort. And here in Istanbul, it`s not just the international aid that`s coming in, and there`s Turks, it`s people from this country piling into centers like   this one to provide those donations. There is a real sense of unity here, people really want to help and of course there are so many in need. The question of what`s also now relating to northwest Syria, getting aid across the border there, through the Bab al-Hawa crossing, there has been   some logistical challenges as well as diplomatic challenges in getting the aid across the northwest Syria. That now seems to be coming through. And, of course, we are also now beginning to see evacuations. People and families being evacuated from the impacted southeast region of Turkey to   even here in Istanbul where they will be sheltered over the next few weeks, many of them of course now displaced homeless with nowhere else to go. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: "Girl With a Pearl Earring" is a famous painting by what artist? Johannes Vermeer, Leonardo da Vinci, Vincent van Gogh or Michelangelo? Often compared to the "Mona Lisa", Johannesburg Vermeer painted "Girl With a Pearl Earring" in around 1665. That painting is now part of an unprecedented show at the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam. The museum is putting on the largest showcase of Vermeer   paintings in our lifetime. Twenty-eight of the artist`s 37 attributed works are on display, even Vermeer himself did not see that many of his paintings   together all at one time. Tickets for the event are sold out, but lucky us, CNN`s Nick Glass is taking us inside the exhibit to check it out. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NICK GLASS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  For a glorious 90 minutes, we had the place to ourselves. Vermeer`s paintings, their beauty, their size   demand intimacy and quiet. And here was an opportunity to spend quality time with his most famous creation. This is rare. I`ve been an arts score (ph), it`s -- one for something like 20 years, and to be alone with a painting like this "Girl With a Pearl   Erring", it`s extraordinary and she`s not alone. The Rijksmuseum has pulled off an astonishing artistic coup, the greatest Vermeer show of this or any other lifetime, 28 of the 34 to 37 attributed   works. Vermeer himself would never have seen so many of his paintings altogether in one place. TACO DIBBITS, DIRECTOR, RIJKSMUSEUM:  It`s very exciting. I`ve -- it kind of had this dream of having all the paintings together. Obviously, they`re   only about 37 paintings by Vermeer but having 28 here is just something we would have never saw possible. GLASS:  "The Lacemaker" from the Louvre in Paris, "Girl With the Red Hat" from the National Gallery in Washington, "Girl Reading a Letter at an Open   Window" from the Gemaldegalerie in Dresden, Germany. GREGOR WEBER, CO-CURATOR, RIJKSMUSEUM:  Remember that I saw for the first time two paintings by Vermeer from the National Gallery London, and I think   I fainted a little bit with such a glowing light in the paintings. And since then, I feel busy with Vermeer. GLASS:  Vermeer has been under intense scrutiny in another way in the lab under infrared and other light. They`ve adapted specialist techniques first   used by NASA to map minerals on Mars and the moon. It amounts to non- invasive fine art archeology. IGE VERSLYPE, PAINTINGS CONSERVATOR, RIKSMUSEUM:  It`s as if you`re looking over his shoulder and seeing what he`s doing. GLASS:  We didn`t know it, but Vermeer never stopped experimenting. ANNA KREKELER, PAINTINGS CONSERVATOR, RIJKSMUSEUM:  If you see the underlying paint layers for example, the underpaint, he really put on kind   of fast and rough brush strokes to define light and shadow. For example, in the tablecloth, you have areas where he -- where there`s black underpaint   like here and here, right the darkest shadows, and then on top where the light hits the table, he used a wide underpaint. GLASS:  And behind her on the wall --   KREKELER:  Here was a fire basket, a large element to dry your clothes, and then here was a -- was a jock rack with ducks hanging on it. GLASS:  We`ve known for a long time that Vermeer was a genius with paints and a brush, but only now are we beginning to understand how precisely he   did it. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Well, the Super Bowl is behind us, and I got to meet some pretty cool people in Arizona, like Miss Levrenz (ph). Shout outs to Cocopah   Middle School. I also got to see Super Bowl traditions. Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, the Puppy Bowl. Year 19 of the clash of canines took place on Sunday,   featuring team Ruff versus team Fluff. A hundred and twenty-two pumped up pups from rescues and shelters across the country, this year`s game was intense. Penalty flags thrown for   unnecessary roughness and for excessive cuteness. For the first time ever, the Puppy Bowl went into overtime this year and it was team Fluff wagging   their way to the win 87-83. Today is hashtag your word Wednesday. Follow me @CoyWire on Insta, Snapchat and TikTok and put your challenge words in the comments section of my most   recent post, and we`re going to choose one, fun one to work into tomorrow`s show. The last word was floccinaucinihilipilification which is the action   of deeming something as worthless. One thing that`s not an exercise in floccinaucinihilipilification is shout out time. Woodward Middle School in Woodward, Oklahoma, we see you. Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube Channel. See you tomorrow, lovely people. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-02-16
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. It`s Thursday. So happy Friday Eve. It`s your boy Coy, aka Mr. Clean. Let`s aim to be a little better today than we were yesterday and we can start by fueling our minds right here on CNN 10. First up, the inflation situation. Headline is: inflation surged in January, and by the most we`d seen in three months. As a reminder,   inflation is a rise in prices and decline in the ability to purchase. It`s like if someone gives you twenty dollars, you go to the movies. But the   cost of a movie ticket is now $17 and last year, it was only $15 for a movie at your local theater. Rising inflation means that your twenty dollars just won`t get you as much as it used to. But despite the fact that inflation costs grew this month,   they`ve continued to slow for the year overall. But economists are bracing for uncertainty and it seems like no one not even the experts have any clue   what`s going to happen next. And part of this is because so many factors contribute to what makes up inflation. All economists know is that inflation has changed household budgets and altered American spending habits, especially in terms of discretionary   spending. That means extra money to spend on entertainment, eating out and travel. We`ll hear now from CNN business and politics correspondent Vanessa Yurkevich who has more on what`s happening in the market. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT:  It`s been a bumpy road to cool inflation and a longer road than many Americans would   like to see. But some good news, year-over-year inflation cooled to 6.4 percent falling for seven straight months. But inflation in January rose   0.5 percent and inflation and the economy have been key issues for President Biden. And coming off this report, he said that it is good news   but there is still work to do as inflation remains too high. So the biggest inflation drivers were energy costs, which includes gas, up 1.5 percent from a year ago, shelter which contributed to nearly half the   increase last month, that rose 7.9 percent year over year. And food costs remaining extremely high, up 10.1 percent year over year. Some key items at the grocery store costing more eggs up 70 percent, butter   up 26.3 percent, and lettuce up 17.2 percent year over year. But you`ll see some savings on a couple items at the grocery store -- beef, veal and   bacon, all down year over year. So how does this translate to Americans budgets? Well, according to Moody`s Analytics, families are spending nearly four hundred dollars more a month   this year than they did last year on the same goods and services because of inflation. So this signals that there is still work for the Federal Reserve   to do. We can expect continued interest rate hikes to try to bring down inflation in the months to come. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SUBTITLE:  A deadly 7.8 magnitude earthquake created this chasm in the middle of a Turkish olive grove. The chasm is 130 feet (40 meters) deep and more than 900 feet (274 meters) long. UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  This earthquake was beyond belief. Of course, you might get some mild tremors or an average earthquake. But   we`ve never seen anything so explosive, or tremors of these proportions. SUBTITLE:  One in every two buildings in this region have either collapsed, are damaged or need demolition. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which of these words comes from a Latin term meaning "to send out"? Edify, embody, emit or encompass? Meaning to throw or give off, emit is your answer here. It`s derived from the Latin word emittere. Up next, we`re going to meet a climate scientist who`s been researching and tracking dust for decades. That`s right, dust. She tells us that those tiny   particulates can essentially create change of Brobdingnag in proportions across the globe. The company SpaceX just launched with EMIT on board, a   special instrument from NASA that`ll help scientists learn more about how dust is affecting our atmosphere. CNN meteorologist Allison Chinchar shows us how we`re going to learn more about dust from space. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST (voice-over):  In July 2022, this SpaceX rocket launched with a new NASA instrument called EMIT on board. NATALIE MAHOWALD, PROFESSOR OF ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE/CORNELL UNIVERSITY:  Well, EMIT is going to revolutionize what we can do. So it`s just going to   provide such amazing new data to help us understand the surface and the atmosphere. CHINCHAR:  Now, over 250 miles above the Earth, attached to the International Space Station, its purpose is to shed light on an important   weather phenomenon -- dust. MAHOWALD:  Desert dust or mineral aerosols is a mineral soil particle that`s suspended in the atmosphere. And so, these come out mostly from   desert regions that are dry and unvegetated with strong winds. CHINCHAR:  For over two decades, climate scientist Natalie Mahowald has been tracking dust across the globe and how it impacts climate change. MAHOWALD:  I love looking at a globe and thinking about how dust is getting from one place to another. CHINCHAR:  She`s been working with NASA on this new instrument to find out how different colors of dust in the atmosphere can heat or cool the planet. MAHOWALD:  So different soils actually have really different colors. So the white ones reflect incoming solar radiation and the red ones and the dark   ones absorb it. So one of the problems we have in understanding the impact of desert dust is we don`t know the composition very well. CHINCHAR:  Using a device called an imaging spectrometer, EMIT scans the Earth`s arid regions to detect different colored soils, creating a mineral   map. MAHOWALD:  Already, EMIT has taken millions or billions of observations of what`s going on in the arid regions in terms of the composition. And then   we can use that to put into our models, to better understand what actually the impact of the desert dust is. CHINCHAR:  Dust and sandstorms have dramatically increased in recent years due to climate change, land degradation, and drought, according to the U.N.   These storms are causing respiratory illnesses, damaging livestock, disrupting transport and even melting arctic ice. MAHOWALD:  We`ve also watched dust plumes really just travel across oceans and be deposited in Greenland or even in the Alps. CHINCHAR:  EMIT can also detect another factor impacting climate change -- methane, a potent greenhouse gas. It`s detected 50 super emitters across   the world, mostly coming from fossil fuel, landfill and agricultural facilities. NASA hopes this knowledge can help countries stem the emissions and shine a spotlight on how our planet is changing. MAHOWALD:  So you can think of the EMIT project as really testing the waters and really showing what is possible. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And for today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, the ghost yacht. A 53- foot ship sat eerily abandoned in a marina at Kent Narrows, Maryland, for decades. It was nicknamed the "Ghost Yacht". But now, the mysterious yacht   is being reimagined. The state`s artificial reef program sunk the vessel to the bottom of the Chesapeake Bay this past week as one of Maryland`s   artificial reefs. The hope is that it`ll become a habitat for all sorts of fish and underwater creatures and provide an underwater treasure for scuba   divers. Kind of like a sunken pirate ship. All right. Dad joke alert, what did the pirate say when he turned 80? I`m 80. I want to give a special salute to all of you lovely people who made a #YourWordWednesday submission. Thanks to the likes of @laurensandrasrq.   Today`s word was Brobdingnagian if you didn`t notice, which means gigantic. And we want to give a Brobdingnagian shout out to Woodbridge Middle School in Bridgeville, Delaware, rise up. Have an awesome day, lovely people, or   maybe an all a lot day. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-02-17
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. You made it. The weekend is upon us. Friday is here and Friday`s rock, especially this Friday because   we`re headed into a three-day weekend. We have a lot of news to get through today, so not a lot of time to do it. Let`s get to it. We`re going to begin with the latest out of New Zealand where the country just declared a national state of emergency. Cyclone Gabrielle hit New Zealand with wind and rain, knocking out power to tens of thousands of homes in the area. The wind gusts were greater than 87   miles per hour, waves were close to 36 feet high. When we recorded this show the storm had killed at least five people and caused widespread   damage. Police in the area say they remain focused on locating those people that are unaccounted for. What exactly is a cyclone? Let`s break it down. Cyclones, hurricanes and typhoons are essentially the same, with only the location of the storm determining what we call it. For example, the only   difference between a hurricane and a typhoon is that typhoons happen in the Western and North Pacific waters, while hurricanes occur in the Eastern and   North Pacific and the North Atlantic Basin. That`s why whenever we talk about these types of storms in the U.S., it`s almost always a hurricane. Cyclones happen only in the Indian Ocean and the   South Pacific. We`ll keep you updated as news unfold surrounding the cyclone in New Zealand as the worst of the weather looks to have passed   significant and potentially life-threatening challenges remain. Next story today, earlier this month, a Norfolk Southern train which was carrying toxic chemicals at the time derailed from the tracks and crashed   in eastern Ohio. Now, the derailment ignited the hazardous chemicals on board, covering the town of East Palestine with smoke. Authorities created   an evacuation zone around the crash and fearing a major explosion performed a controlled release of the chemicals. Weeks later, residents have been encouraged to return home, but there are lots of questions about just how harmful exposure to these chemicals could   be. The plumes of smoke from the explosion carry the hazardous material into the air and water to which residents would be exposed. With all eyes on Ohio, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency administrator otherwise known as EPA, Michael Regan, visited the region on   Thursday to assess the ongoing response and hear from impacted residents. Here`s CNN`s national correspondent Jason Carroll who`s been on the ground in Ohio for the last few days covering this story for us. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DR. BRUCE VANDERHOOF, DIRECTOR, OHIO DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH:  We are strongly recommending those who have not yet had their water source checked to use   bottled water. And bottled water is being made available. JASON CARROLL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  More than a week after a toxic train derailment that led to the evacuation of much of this   small Ohio town, state health officials are urging some East Palestine residents to drink bottled water until water tests are complete. Officials say the toxic spill was largely contained the day after the derailment and that tests have shown the air quality is safe. But they have found low levels of contaminants in four nearby waterways spanning seven and a half miles, including Leslie Run, a creek which runs   through East Palestine and neighboring Negli (ph), right through the back of Kathy Reese`s (ph) property. (on camera):  In the back of your property back here, they found dead fish? KATHY REESE (ph), EAST PALESTINE RESIDENT:  Yes, they saw dead fish. CARROLL:  Reese says she has been drinking bottled water instead of well water ever since she started spotting dead fish in the creek following the   derailment. She says she`s still waiting for the state to come and test her well water. REESE:  Air wise, I feel OK. Water wise, no. No. There`s just too many chemicals and stuff that were spilled that they still don`t want to   identify completely. CARROLL:  An Ohio Department of Natural Resources official estimates some 3,500 fish in the state have died following the train derailment. These   people saw the flames from their homes and worried their neighborhood still may not be safe. What about testing water or ground? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Nothing yet. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  No. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And I get that I don`t recommend you put anything in the ground. I mean, vegetables or tomatoes or anything this year because we   don`t know. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I don`t think they`re going to do enough. CARROLL:  And some residents say they have been frustrated by what they describe as a lack of communication with officials on the ground. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We pass all of the creeks and there`s crew after crew with white hoses and black hoses all through the creeks, they`re not   telling us why, and this is daily. I`m driving my children to school past all of this and they`re asking me questions that I don`t have answers to. CARROLL:  Some of their questions unanswered. We found getting information just as challenging. OK, just tell me, are they pumping water out or pumping water back in? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You can talk to the guys up in top of the hill, sir. We`re just grunts. CARROLL:  We`re just trying to get a sense of what those pumps are. Can just -- someone just -- UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Norfolk Southern can tell you everything. That`s the hotline. They can tell you everything. CARROLL:  But you realize people are calling this number and no one is getting back to them. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We`re just told to direct people to that number. CARROLL:  The governor asked by reporters Tuesday if he would feel comfortable living in East Palestine. GOV. MIKE DEWINE (R), OHIO:  I think that I would be drinking the bottled water. And I would be continuing to find out what the tests were showing as   far as the air. I would be alert and concerned, but I think I would probably be back in my house. CARROLL:  But residents like Kathy Reese say they are left with few choices. REESE:  Just, I guess, pray and keep drink a bottled water until we know for sure what`s going on. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which of these is the most visited urban park in the U.S.? Golden Gate Park in San Francisco, D.C.`s National Mall, Central Park in New York or the Lincoln Park in Chicago. With 40 million annual visitors, Central Park is the most visited city park in the U.S. The park is also home to a wide range of wildlife as you can imagine but a newcomer is getting most of the attention right now. Flaco, the owl,   escaped from the Central Park Zoo and is at large and on the loose in the park. The rare Eurasian eagle owl escaped his enclosure on February 2nd,   and since then, zoo officials have kept an eye on the bird which has become a bit of a celebrity. While Flaco seems to be adapting well to the wild, there are some concerns over how he might adapt to that New York City lifestyle. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over):  There`s a new star in Central Park and he`s right out of central casting. Lately, bird watchers only have   eyes for owls. And some fans on David Barrett`s burger blog are saying. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Let Flaco be free. MOOS:  In the beginning of February Flaco escaped from his exhibit at the Central Park Zoo after someone cut through the stainless steel mesh. His   enclosure didn`t have room to do much flying. In his first night of freedom, the NYPD almost corralled him on a Fifth Avenue sidewalk. "Well, that was a hoot," the NYPD tweeted when the owl   flew off. EDMUND BERRY, BIRDER EYEWITNESS:  I was worried that it wouldn`t be able to fly but it spread its wings and flew to the nearest set of trees. MOOS:  Zoo officials were most worried that Flaco didn`t know how to hunt since he`s always had his meals delivered. They tried to learn them using a   white wrapped in a cage hoping he gets trapped in the wiry filaments on top. DAVID BARRETT, MANHATTAN BIRD ALERT:  The zoo team was rushing with nets to get Flaco but Flaco was too fast. MOOS:  And now fans are snapping photos of Flaco catching his own dinner. BARRETT:  Rats. MOOS:  Rats on the menu. Barrett says the owl`s gone from zero hunting skills to decent hunting skills. BARRETT:  That`s just an incredible transformation. MOOS:  He hangs out in Central Park charming New Yorkers with hooting so low it requires subtitles. Like other creatures not native to Central Park,   Flaco the Eurasian Eagle Owl has become one of the select few. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right. I know you are all ready to flee for the weekend like Flaco. Monday is President`s Day. So no show that day. Originally established in 1885 in recognition of President George Washington, the U.S. holiday now recognizes all presidents past and   present. Fairmont, West Virginia, you`re getting the shout out today. East Fairmont Middle School -- rise up, Hornets. Have a wonderful weekend, everyone, and remember you are more powerful than you know. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2023-02-21
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Terrific Tuesday to you.  It`s your boy Coy. I hope you had a wonderful weekend and a pleasant President`s Day holiday. I am pumped to be back here with you to start this   week off strong.  We`re going to begin with the latest news out of Ukraine. This week, President Biden made an unexpected visit to Kyiv. It was his first visit   since Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine almost a year ago. Here`s part of what the president had to say about this trip: (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  That dark night one year ago, the world was literally at the time bracing for the fall of Kyiv. One year   later, Kyiv stands, and Ukraine stands, democracy stands. The Americans stand with you and the world stands with you. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Now, there is a long history of American presidents visiting war zones. This trip was unprecedented in modern history however because the   American president traveled to an active war zone without a large U.S. military presence. President Biden said his trip was to reaffirm the,   quote, unwavering support that the United States holds for Ukraine. But, earlier this month, the United States said Russia has committed crimes against humanity in Ukraine. That was an escalation of what they`d said   previously. Russia called the accusation an excuse for Washington to further the conflict. During his trip, President Biden also announced new military assistance for Ukraine and incoming sanctions against Moscow. We`ll keep you informed on   any more updates from the president`s trip as well as new information on the ongoing war overseas. And over the weekend, the secretive nation of North Korea launched a series of missile tests off the coast of the Korean peninsula. The country says   the missiles have enough range to hit the United States. But the U.S. has said this weekend`s events, they don`t pose any immediate threat to U.S.   personnel or territory.  The tests do however highlight the destabilizing impact of North Korea`s illegal missile program. North Korean Leader Kim Jong-un`s sister warned of   more threats to come unless the United States halts military drills with South Korea.  More now from Paula Hancocks, CNN international correspondent based in Seoul, South Korea. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  It has been a busy few days on the Korean peninsula. North Korea on Saturday launching a   significant missile. On Sunday and Monday, we have seen tit-for-tat retaliation from both sides -- North Korea, and also the U.S. and South   Korea on the other side. So what we saw on Saturday, Pyongyang admitted a day later, was an intercontinental ballistic missile. Now these they claim can hit mainland   United States and they are the ones that do concern Washington. We heard from Kim Yo-jong, Kim Jong-un`s sister, that this actually shows that they   have missile re-entry technology.  Now, it`s very difficult to know if that is in fact the case, but that is what Pyongyang is claiming at this point. So what we saw on Sunday then   just one day later was a concerted show of force by the U.S. and South Korean air force, air forces. They flew sorties over the Korean peninsula,   including at least one B-1 bomber, escorted by South Korean fighter jets and then in response to that, we saw this Monday morning from Pyongyang two   launches.  Now they say that it was a super large multiple rocket launcher exercise in retaliation for what they saw the day before. So this is really a latest   cycle of tit-for-tat retaliation, but certainly, the Saturday launch was the significant one. But we`re not expecting the tensions or this tit for   tat retaliation to diminish anytime soon, because Pyongyang says it is doing so because the U.S. and South Korea are carrying out joint military   drills, and if they continue to do that, then they will continue to respond.  Now we know that this week at the Pentagon, there will be a nuclear tabletop drill between the U.S. and South Korea, and then next month, there   will be a larger joint military drill between the two countries. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Up next, we`re traveling to Canada in search of zombies but not the type of zombies you`d typically think of. Ever heard of zombie fires, I had   neither until now. They`re essentially fires that were never totally put out at the end of a fire season and they burn underground threatening to come back from beneath   the surface at any moment to wreak havoc once more. We`ll hear more now from an international team of researchers who are on the hunt for the next   fire that could be lurking beneath the earth`s surface. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORTER:  In the remote boreal forests of Canada`s Northwest Territories, and Rebecca Scholten, along with an international team of researchers, is   on the hunt for signs of a rare and destructive phenomenon.  REBECCA SCHOLTEN, PHD STUDENT, VU AMSTERDAM:  So the first thing you notice when you get to a site that has had a zombie fire is that a lot of these   trees have fallen over and that is because of the underground burning that is happening. REPORTER:  In 2015, this region of boreal forest was the scene of an overwintering fire also known as a zombie fire. These are rare so we don`t   have any footage of them but they can look just like these regular forest fires, except they`re back from the dead. SCHOLTEN:  So these are fires that are not extinguished at the end of a fire season but instead, they smoldered deep into the organic soil layer   and when the snow comes the snow kind of protects them from the adverse winter conditions and that makes it possible for them to smolder or   throughout winter and when the snow melts and there`s dry fuels available again these fires come up to the surface again and start a new flaming   forest fire. REPORTER:  In 2021, Scholten published the first ever scientific study to detect zombie fires using satellites and reports from local fire managers   as part of her PhD.  For example, in the summer of 2015, a fire in southwest Alaska blazed across 26 square miles. Winter came and snow covered the fire site. But the   following spring, the fire returned along the old burn scar, evidence Scholten says of a zombie fire.  By burning through the soil and the roots, zombie fires can be more damaging to the forest than regular fires, making it harder for them to   recover. But that`s not all, these boreal soils store huge amounts of carbon, so burning them releases it as carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. Zombie fires are rare but Scholten found that they are increasing due to climate change. SCHOLTEN:  So I think zombie fires a very good poster child for what is happening to arctic wildfires in general. So we see fire regimes are   intensifying and this has very important impact on the ecosystems that of course has an impact on our climate. And that is why I think everyone in   the world should care about these fires. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which of these words comes from a Latin term that described a wind from the north? Zephyr, bluster, boreal, or arboreal? Zephyr was a west wind but when you`re talking about a north wind, you`re speaking in boreal terms.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Oh, yeah, it`s going all the way. Oh, yeah, right above, wow look at how bright that is. SUBTITLE:  This erupting aurora was caught on camera in Alaska. Particles from explosions on the sun interact with atmospheric gases, creating the mesmerizing light displays.  Vincent Ledvina, a doctoral student in space physics, has been photographic polar lights for years. (MUSIC) (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right. Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a shark attack, only this time, it`s the shark getting attacked by a dog. That`s right, a   big old hammerhead shark. One boater said it was probably about feet long, just minding this business in the Bahamas until a dog spots the monster   cruising beneath the surface and cannonball, the dog jumps into the water and starts chasing the shark away. The people on the tour boat were   screaming in disbelief in horror the dog is the pet of the caretaker who manages the private island.  Pardon my sarcasm little doggy, but something tells me year one jawsitively lucky pup. The boaters were relieved when the dog safely swam back to the   shore unharmed. Fun fact for the day: did you know that baby sharks are called pups? Learn something new every day. Shout out time now. Hudsonville High School in Hudsonville, Michigan, we see you.  Also shout out to Mr. Ben Lewis at Brenham Middle School in Brenham, Texas. He challenged his students to interview a military veteran an immigrant and   an American citizen over 60 years old. To learn about different perspectives and to gain better understanding of what it means to be an   American, he turned the interviews into this book. Proceeds are going to help deserving military veterans.  We salute you, Mr. Lewis, and to all of the students who sent me a lovely note with all these signatures, you totally rocked it out. We`ll see you tomorrow, everyone. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-02-22
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. Wonderful Wednesday to you. I`m Coy Wire, and we are so grateful that you`re making us part of your day   right here on CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news. Random thought for you before we start. Why is it that we park on a driveway, but we drive on a parkway? All right. Let`s shift into high gear now. We start today with more on President Biden`s visit to Ukraine. On Tuesday, the president gave a speech   in Poland after making a surprise visit to Ukraine on Monday, nearly one year after Russia started its invasion there. The president recommitted the support of the United States and its resources to Ukraine. This despite the rising costs of sending aid. The   U.S. has already given about $30 billion and recent polls show public support for America continuing to send weapons to Ukraine is fading as   well, down to 48 percent last month when 60 percent of Americans supported it back in May. Just hours earlier on Tuesday, Russian President Vladimir Putin slammed the West in his annual state of the nation Address in Moscow, casting Russia as   the victim, saying that it was Ukraine and its Western allies who started the war. He says Russia`s military efforts in Ukraine are to protect   themselves and Putin offered no signs of backing down from their presence in Ukraine. So why did President Biden risk entering an active war zone that isn`t showing any signs of settling down in the near future? Biden was not the   first president to make a trip to a war zone, but he is the first to do so without a U.S. military presence in the region to protect him. Here`s CNN`s Brian Todd to tell us about other U.S. presidents who traveled to war zones and why they did that. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  It was at the height of World War II and the conflict still wasn`t going America`s way. President Franklin Delano Roosevelt engaged in a high-stakes game of misdirection, tricking journalists into thinking he was taking a train to   his home in Upstate New York, but he secretly switched trains in Baltimore, headed to Miami, then took a series of arduous plane hops and ended up in   Casablanca, Morocco. It was January 1943, the first time a sitting American president rode on an airplane, a trip shrouded in secrecy so that FDR could   strategize with Winston Churchill, a journey fraught with danger. TIM NAFTALI, CNN PRESIDENTIAL HISTORIAN:  In World War II, you not only had the possibility of the commander-in-chief being shot down, but the   technology was such that air travel was not as safe in the 1940s as it is today. TODD:  Some U.S. troops in Morocco didn`t know their president was coming until he rode past them in a Jeep. Historians say war zone trips for   American presidents have always been complicated, even dating back to the civil war. LINDSAY CHERVINSKY, PRESIDENTIAL HISTORIAN:  At least presidents have gone to war zones in the past starting of course with Abraham Lincoln in the   civil war. There are those famous pictures of him in his top hat visiting union soldiers to boost their morale. But it is a big risk. TODD:  Lyndon B. Johnson went twice as president. Richard Nixon once to Vietnam while the war there was raging. DOUGLAS BRINKLEY, PRESIDENTIAL HISTORIAN, RICE UNIVERSITY:  I know when Nixon went in 1969 to Saigon, all of his advisors were saying don`t do it,   it`s too dangerous. TODD:  George W. Bush, Barack Obama and Donald Trump went to Iraq and Afghanistan to visit U.S. troops. NAFTALI:  When those presidents went to Kabul and Baghdad respectively, they were taking huge risks. TODD:  When George H.W. Bush as a former president visited Kuwait in 1993, Saddam Hussein`s intelligence service tried to have Iraqi operatives   assassinate him, a plot that was narrowly foiled. Presidents have taken these risks to boost troops morale, to strategize with other commanders and sometimes to decide whether a war should even   continue. DWIGHT EISENHOWER, FORMER PRESIDENT:  I shall go to Korea. TODD:  That was Dwight D. Eisenhower`s objective as president-elect when he took a secret trip to South Korea in December 1952. NAFTALI:  Eisenhower not only went to meet the troops, not only went to meet the South Korean leader, but actually took a plane over Chinese and   North Korean positions to get a view himself of the nature of their defenses. That`s an extremely hazardous trip. (END VIDEOTAPE) TODD (on camera):  Historian Tim Naftali says despite the sometimes- incredible risks, the rewards are very high, that as commander-in-chief, it`s crucial for a president to show their commitment to the fight and to   show that not only to American forces but to their adversaries as well. WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: What Italian city is also known by the nickname La Serenissima? Palermo, Genoa, Venice or Florence? Meaning serene, La Serenissima was a nickname for the Republic of Venice. Ah, Venice, the floating city with people being serenaded and gondolas as they drift through winding canals under hundreds of walkways and bridges.   But those famous canals look a lot different right now. They`re so dried up that many of the gondolas and water taxis are sadly sitting on empty   waterways. And there are fears that Italy will face a drought for a second straight summer following an extremely dry winter. Now, these images are a stark contrast from those of just a few years ago. In 2019, water poured into restaurants, shops and famous landmarks like   Saint Mark`s Basilica in Venice as it battled its worst flood in 50 years. Here`s reporting from CNN international correspondent Scott McLean during that time as we try to imagine the scope of issues Venetians had to deal   with the last several years. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  High tide on Saturday was actually welcome relief for Venetians struggling with the   worst flooding in half a century. It filled historic Saint Mark`s Square but was not enough to do more damage than already done. This cafe opened for the first time since Tuesday`s high watermark sent more than a foot of water inside enough to break the dishwasher and the   fridge. This waiter told us, we are Venetians, roll up our sleeves and start working again. Venice is our lady; we will protect her. Meanwhile at Saint Mark`s Basilica, the water at the door didn`t knock before entering. But it still got their attention. PIERPAOLO CAMPOSTRINI, ST. MARK`S BASILICA BOARD MEMBER:  We have a -- we have more than this level of water. MCLEAN:  It`s not uncommon for water to enter the outer atrium. It was even a special drainage system to handle it. But Pierpaolo Campostrini says it was just the second time there`s been significant flooding in the main chamber. Ten centimeters there and another   meter in the crypt the water came and went quickly but the salt in the water stays in the 900-year-old walls much longer, eating away at the   marble and brick near the floor and even on the mosaic ceiling. And that`s the damage. CAMPOSTRINI:  And that`s the damage. MCLEAN:  The basilica has survived centuries of threats but nothing like the one it faces today. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, you`re going to meet George, a young Detroit Red Wings fan who went to his very first game and   he and his mom were in for a huge surprise when George became a big time hit on the jumbotron. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  It was George`s first hockey game and the jumbotron eat him up. Detroit Red Wing fans booing. Opposing   fans from Vancouver cheering. Every time George came up, even if he didn`t quite get it, the opposition --   (BOOS) MOOS:  The home team --   (CHEERS) MOOS:  George finally cracked a smile and went viral. King George, they called him. I see a George bobblehead night. But it didn`t give George a big head. CHELSEA MILLER, MOM:  Like he didn`t know it was about him, and just kept saying like, yes, red team`s winning. MOOS:  Chelsea Miller describes her four-year-old son as shy amid a whirlwind of attention. MILLER:  There were probably at least 100 people that asked to stop to take pictures with him and high fives and can I get an autograph even. MOOS:  Mom says they were hoping his sign would get George on camera, but they weren`t expecting this. MILLER:  Everyone just made it so special for us. MOOS:  University of Michigan hockey wondered, George, do you need a Michigan jersey for the next game? George`s grandma here and he definitely needs a jersey. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Nothing brings people together like sports. Hey, today, is #yourwordwednesday, so follow me @CoyWire on Insta, Snapchat and TikTok, and put your challenge word in the comment section of the most   recent post and we`re going to choose one fun one to work into tomorrow`s show. The last word was Brobdingnagian meaning gigantic, and it`s with great pleasure that we give a Brobdingnagian shout out to Maple Grove Middle   School in Maple Grove, Minnesota. Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our CNN YouTube Channel. See you tomorrow, lovely people. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-02-23
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, lovely people? It`s Thursday. So happy Friday eve and welcome to CNN 10. I`m Coy Wire. Happy to be with you today. Let`s dominate this day. We`re going to start with big news on the weather front. a massive winter storm is threatening the United States coast to coast all the way from   California in the West to Maine in the east. On Wednesday, more than 65 million Americans were under winter weather alerts. Warning of severe icing and extreme cold making driving and flying   very dangerous. More than 1,000 flights in the U.S. had already been canceled on Wednesday at the time of the show`s taping, and more than 2   million people are under blizzard warnings across parts of Wyoming, the Dakotas, Wisconsin and Minnesota. The Minneapolis area in Minnesota could   see historic snowfall totals. On Tuesday, in northern California, strong wind gusts knocked the power out in than 140 homes and businesses. And northern Californians can also expect   to see several in inches of snow. We`ll continue to track this storm right here on CNN 10, but please, be smart and stay safe. Next up, an update on the train derailment in East Palestine, Ohio, which spilled toxic chemicals that are threatening the health and well-being of   residents there. Wednesday morning, the Environmental Protection Agency ordered Norfolk Southern rail company to cover all of the cleanup costs,   but the rail company is facing further pressure. Residents and state officials still have questions about the rail company`s handling of the   situation, and they seek to hold them accountable for any potential wrongdoing. CNN`s Miguel Marquez is in East Palestine with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  A toxic mess left by its derailed train, now President Joe Biden adding his   pressure on Norfolk Southern, following criticism for his response to the crash. On Instagram, Biden wrote, Norfolk Southern`s imposed payments and   cleanup operations are common sense because, quote, this is their mess, and they should clean it up. The company is reiterating its commitment to East Palestine residents. ALAN SHAW, CEO, NORFOLK SOUTHERN:  From day one, I`ve made the commitment that Norfolk Southern is going to remediate the site. MARQUEZ:  But still, it is facing accusations of mismanagement like this from Pennsylvania`s Governor Josh Shapiro. GOV. JOSH SHAPIRO (D), PENNSYLVANIA:  They chose not to participate in the unified command. They gave us inaccurate information and conflicting   modeling data. SHAW:  I was at unified command, and I can tell you that the governors of Ohio and Pennsylvania, Mayor Conaway, Fire Chief Drabick, the National   Guard and Norfolk Southern were aligned that the control burned, the control release was the safest course of action for the citizens of East   Palestine. MARQUEZ:  Governor Shapiro announced a criminal referral to the attorney general`s office over the crash and its fallout. Ohio Governor Mike DeWine   also said his attorney general is reviewing possible legal action against Norfolk Southern. But the train company says it is committed to helping East Palestine for the long haul. SHAW:  We`re going to do continuous long-term air and water monitoring. We`re going to help the residents of this community recover and we`re going   to invest in the long-term health of this community and we`re going to make Norfolk Southern a safer railroad. MARQUEZ:  According to its CEO, Norfolk Southern has reimbursed $6.5 million to East Palestine residents so far. This as the company continues   to monitor air and water quality there. It says hundreds of tests conducted have come back clean. During a visit to East Palestine, head of the EPA Michael Regan said he`s confident in the tests. MICHAEL REGAN, EPA ADMINISTRATOR:  Our data is very solid and if the homes have been cleared and tested for drinking water, then we trust that data.   So we feel really good about that. MARQUEZ:  To prove that Regan and Governor DeWine drank from the same water sources that are being tested. However, Governor DeWine says more work   needs to be done to remove contaminated soil from the area. GOV. MIKE DEWINE (R), OHIO:  The soil under the tracks had not been dealt with. So, under the administrator`s order, that soil will be removed, so   the tracks will have to be taken up and that soil will have to be removed. MARQUEZ:  Despite all these actions and guarantees, East Palestine Mayor Trent Conaway says his community is still concerned about overall safety. MAYOR TRENT CONAWAY, EAST PALESTINE, OHIO:  We need our whole town cleaned up. We need our residents to feel safe in their homes. That`s the number   one thing. Your home is your sanctuary. If you don`t feel safe in your home, then you`re never going to feel safe anywhere. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next up, as part of the fallout from the suspected Chinese spy balloon that flew over the United States earlier this month, the U.S.   announced a new round of sanctions or penalties against six Chinese aerospace companies that they believe supported a Chinese military   reconnaissance balloon program. Today in a CNN exclusive, Will Ripley takes us to a place few outsiders have seen to try to learn more about what the secretive manufacturers could   be up to. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Hundreds of miles from Beijing, a place China does not want you to see. CNN, the   first international media to come here. Behind the sea of barbed wire and security checkpoints, the base of a blacklisted balloon manufacturer, one of six Chinese entities the U.S.   government sanctioned after that suspected spy balloon. Shot down, pulled up, and sent to an FBI lab, each piece providing more proof, the U.S. says, this was no weather balloon, deflating denial after   denial by Beijing. China`s foreign ministry calls the whole thing an accident, the balloon, an unmanned civilian airship. CNN searched for the truth behind the balloon,   took our team from the Chinese capital to a Shanxi province, about 300 miles southwest of Beijing. Days of digging and geolocation technology took   us down this road to a place few outsiders have seen. No international media has ever come this close. What did we find? An active industrial complex with possible ties to the Chinese military`s   vast, highly secretive aerospace program. Eagles Men Aviation Science and Technology, or EMAST, blacklisted by the U.S. Commerce Department. CNN searched corporate records suggesting EMAST has permits to develop and manufacture products for the Chinese military. The first thing we noticed, a giant white dome. A closer look shows the company logo. Inside that dome, a lab. We dug up a 2017 Chinese state media report. The report says this is where workers test high altitude balloons like the one that flew over the U.S. Our team spotted two more massive structures. They look like giant tents. CNN cameras also captured what seems to be an assault helicopter on display. And listen to this. That same state media report never once does it mention meteorology. It boasts the balloons can carry multiple detectors,   communications equipment used for civilian and military surveillance and reconnaissance. CNN tried to get answer from all six companies on the U.S. blacklist. No response from EMAST or the others. They are not talking about the balloon,   but President Joe Biden is. JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  I make no apologies for taking down that balloon. RIPLEY:  A suspected spy balloon. We may never know for sure who made it. China is sticking to its weather balloon claim dismissed by the Pentagon as   nothing but hot air. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which of these countries is the world`s largest producer of oranges? Mexico, United States, Brazil or Cyprus? About one-third of the world`s oranges are grown in Brazil. (MUSIC) WIRE:  It`s the annual battle of the oranges at the Ivrea Carnival. Thousands of people taking part in the biggest food fight in Italy. The   battles, oranges date back to nearly a thousand years, representing a revolt by the commoners in Ivrea, who would rise up against the evil   tyrannical duke`s armies. The town is festooned with banners, pennants and plenty of OJ. The oranges are said to be unsuitable for commercial   purposes, so the citrus slingers hurl more than 4 million oranges during the three days of celebration leading up to lent. All right. Shout out time now. It`s going out to Tolland High School in Tolland, Connecticut, today. Rise up. And thanks to all who made   #yourwordwednesday submission, like Leta DeRays (ph) from Central High in Chattanooga, Tennessee. Today`s word, festoon. If you heard it, it means to adorn a place with decorations. Before we go, one more thing: one of the greatest characteristics we can possess as we chase our goals is not ability, it`s adaptability. The top   achievers in this world don`t have all the answers in the beginning nor do they have all the tools they need to succeed. Our goals they may seem   unattainable at times, and we will fail as we chase them. But if we keep pushing and become like a chameleon and keep adapting, good things will   happen. See you tomorrow, lovely people. I`m Coy and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-02-24
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, lovely people? The weekend is upon us. It is Friday and Friday`s rock. We are fueled up and ready to rock it out   with you. This the best minutes in news, so let`s go, We start with continuing coverage on the intense weather systems sweeping across the United States there`s a strong chance that many of you watching   right now have already seen your neighborhood impacted. More than 65 million people across 29 states from as far west as California to as far   east as Maine were under winter weather alerts, warning of heavy snow, severe icing, extreme cold. Eight hundred and fifty thousand people went   without power, more than 1,700 flights were canceled. But we are seeing two extremes across the country right now while a powerful storm is setting record low temperatures across the northern   plains, at the same time, there is a heat wave in the southeast setting record high temperatures for the month of February. Can you believe that   there is a difference of more than degrees between some places right here in the United States. More now from Brian Todd, a CNN correspondent based in the network`s Washington bureau who tells us of the dangers that this storm is bringing   to people all across the country. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  In Wyoming, a state trooper has to scramble out of the way as a runaway truck almost hits him. Dangerous conditions on a snowy road in Truckee, California, caused this car to flip. In Flagstaff, Arizona, the snow was so violent that this man told CNN it literally knocked him backward as he and his dog struggled to see and keep   their footing. A sweeping massive storm system is pummeling much of the country from California to Maine. More than 65 million people under winter weather   alerts across the West, Midwest, and Northeast. The Minneapolis/St. Paul area could get around 20 inches by the time it`s over. It could be the most snow that area has seen in three decades.   Minnesota`s governor discussed the dangers they prepared for. GOV. TIM WALZ (D), MINNESOTA:  The goal is to not to have to pull somebody off the interstate, but we`re prepared to do so if that happens. The goal   is to make sure that we`re ready if there`s power losses, being able to keep the highways and move emergency vehicles as quickly as we can. TODD:  Conditions so severe in Minnesota that ambulances have to be specially equipped. RYAN MAYFIELD, HENNEPIN HEALTHCARE EMS ASSISTANT CHIEF:  We have shovels in our ambulances. We have salt and sand mixtures as well to help us out. We   have a few sleds if we need to use them. TODD:  California getting hit with snow in places that don`t often experience it. DANIEL SWAIN, CLIMATE SCIENTIST, UCLA:  We are going to see low snow all the way from the Oregon border to the Mexican border. TODD:  North of Los Angeles, a long stretch of vehicles is stopped on state route 58 as the highway patrol warns motorists. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We are asking everybody to avoid the area, make alternate plans, drive a different day. TODD:  But in different areas, different impacts. Near San Jose, high winds snap trees, brought down power lines, and caused widespread power outages. DIANE CHERMAK, SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA, RESIDENT:  These old Victorians, the wood is so old, if there`s a spark that that`s what really worries me. TODD:  High winds caused so-called brownout conditions and several vehicle accidents in the Texas panhandle. And with this massive system thousands of flights have been canceled according to the flight tracking site Flight Aware. It says the airports in   Minneapolis-St. Paul Detroit and Denver are getting hit hardest. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: A group of penguins in the water is referred to as which of the following? Huddle, colony, water or raft? Wouldn`t you know it, all of these are named for a collective of penguins, but a raft refers to a group of penguins in the water. Up next, we`re taking a trip to see some penguins in need of some help. Now, first of all I thought all penguins lived in cold snowy regions but that`s not true. In fact, there are penguins that can be found waddling   around the warm dry shores in South Africa with not a major snowbank in sight. We learn something new every day on the show. This particular penguin population though is dwindling in large part because they`re having trouble making their nests. So, humans are stepping   in to build them some sweet new digs. CNN went to check in on the tuxedo birds and we`ll go there now to learn some more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORTER:  Antarctica is known to have the largest population of penguins in the world, but not all penguins live in snow and ice. Some can be found   waddling along the balmy shores of southern Africa, on barren and windswept islands like this one. But in the last century, populations of the endangered African penguin have plummeted, due in part to human disturbance, egg poaching and climate   change. TRUDI MALAN, CONSERVATION MANAGER, DYER ISLAND CONSERVATION TRUST:  Dyer Island in the 1970s, there was about breeding pairs. At the moment, we`re   counting breeding pairs. It`s quite a severe collapse. REPORTER:  Historically, African penguins made nests in boroughs of guano, layers of accumulated seabird and bad feces. But in the 19th century,   humans began to exploit guano supplies and sell it as fertilizer, leaving penguins and their eggs exposed to predators and a scorching sun. KEVIN GRAHAM, ASSOCIATE CURATOR, DALLAS ZOO/AZA SAFE:  At one point in the colonies, it ranged from three to 10 meters in depth and even deeper in   some areas. Right now, the deepest guano remaining in any of the colony`s measures in the centimeters, the only thing left is bare gravel, bare oil,   nothing that they can burrow into and that took away their entire nesting ability. REPORTER:  In 2016, the African Penguin Nest Project dived to the rescue, a coordinated effort between Dyer Island Conservation Trust, Dallas Zoo and   other organizations. Its mission is to design and deploy artificial nests that give penguin parents a safe and cool place to raise their chicks. After two years of development and studying old guano nests, project experts settled on a final design which they started deploying in late   2018. The aim was to emulate mother nature as closely as possible. GRAHAM:  We made the entrance hall small so that the penguins can squeeze in and as soon as they turn around, they can protect that entrance hole   from any predator it looks a little bit strange when you look at it but it`s an exact copy of what the penguins build themselves if they were given   the opportunity. REPORTER:  Each nest is fitted with a sensor that measures temperature and humidity which enables researchers to track the nest`s microclimate. GRAHAM:  Eggs are an extremely delicate structure. They`re only set to be incubated at about 38 to 39 degrees. Any higher than that, and there`s a   very real risk of the eggs dying. We`re going to constantly be looking at the performance of the nests when it comes to the usage rates, are the penguins using them? Are the eggs   hatching? Are the chicks fledging? But so far, what we`re seeing is that the artificial nests are fledging chicks at a much higher rate than any other option that they have. REPORTER:  Funded by donations or by people sponsoring individual nests, Graham says the project is so far installed more than 1,500 nests around   South Africa`s penguin colonies. Next year, the project hopes to expand to penguin colonies in Namibia. The end goal is that every penguin that needs a nest will get one. MALAN:  I think we have got a responsibility as humans because you know we`ve kind of intruded onto a place and messed things up a little bit, but   we also can fix it. I never think of an African penguin as cute and cuddly. I think of an African penguin as absolutely tenacious. I think there are   such survivors and they should be an example to all of us that you can overcome. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a pup with a celebrity smile. Check out this crooked grin canine. Its name, Paul Ruff, named after actor   Paul Rudd. It`s his doggy doppelganger. Ruff was a shelter dog in Tennessee, but the good news is he found a forever home after he went viral when people pointed out that he had a   celebrity twin. All right. I want to give a special shout out to Forest Creek Middle School in Fort Mill South Carolina. What`s up, Hudson? I also want to send big virtual hugs to Ms. Mindy and all the Hibbard (ph) Wildcats who watch us every morning. Yeah, represent. I`m @CoyWire on Insta, Snapchat, and TikTok. We`re CNN 10 on YouTube. Have an awesome weekend and remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END 

Date: 2023-02-27
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, sunshine? Welcome back. Hope you had a wonderful weekend. I`m Coy Wire, here with you so we can fuel our minds,   dominate this week and have a little bit of fun while doing it.  Our lead story on CNN 10 today, the ongoing invasion of Ukraine. Friday marked one year since Russian President Vladimir Putin launched a large-  scale attack of neighboring Ukraine. It`s been a full year of destruction and loss of life. It`s been a time where Ukraine has fought back and its   allies have come forward to penalize Russia with sanctions on their economy while sending millions of dollars in aid to Ukraine.  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has received international praise for his wartime leadership but he has also been criticized. For one, he   didn`t warn Ukrainian citizens of the impending invasion ahead of time. Why? He says the decision prevented financial panic and that it better   preserved Ukraine`s economy in order to fund the fight against Russia.  So when might this war end? At a ceremony on Friday, which remembered a somber in anniversary of events that are changing lives forever, Zelenskyy   vowed to push for a Ukrainian victory in 2023.  The day was full of commemorations, reflections and tears. But Zelenskyy`s tone remained strong and he spoke of the country`s resilience during   Europe`s largest and deadliest war since World War II. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT:  Slava Ukraini. BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over):  His exchanges with Ukrainian soldiers today were vintage Volodymyr Zelenskyy. Zelenskyy told his army   they would be the ones to decide whether Ukraine will exist in the future or not. But one year after Russia`s invasion, few doubt that Ukraine`s fate hinges in no small part on the man who emerge as an effective war time leader. JOHN HERBST, FORMER U.S. AMBASSADOR TO UKRAINE:  The man has a spine. And obviously when you are truly David fighting Goliath, if you don`t have a   spine, you lose. WILLIAM TAYLOR, FORMER U.S. AMBASSADOR TO UKRAINE:  Twelve months later he is the hard bitten leader. I mean, he has been through a year of trial like   no other leader. TODD:  And from the first moments of the war it seemed like Zelenskyy was up to the challenge, like when he posted a video message on Facebook from   the streets of Kyiv with his cabinet on the second night of the invasion. ZELENSKYY (through translator):  The president is here. We are all here. Our military is here. TODD:  Volodymyr Zelenskyy has since dominated the narrative, from a stirring appearance before joint session of the U.S. Congress. ZELENSKYY:  Ukraine is alive and kicking. TODD:  To what he said to the British House of Commons. ZELENSKYY:  We will not give up and we will not lose. We will fight in the forests, in the fields, on the shores, on the streets. TODD:  Compare that to what Winston Churchill said after the evacuation of Dunkirk. WINSTON CHURCHILL, FORMER BRITISH PRIME MINISTER:  We shall fight in the fields and in the streets. We shall fight in the hills. We shall never   surrender. BORIS JOHNSON, FORMER BRITISH PRIME MINISTER:  He has successfully mimicked Winston Churchill himself. Volodymyr Zelenskyy has mobilized the United   States of America. TODD:  Former U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine William Taylor remembers Zelenskyy in the early months of his presidency as a good natured, somewhat naive   politician. How has the war changed Zelenskyy? TAYLOR:  He`s less jovial. He`s less -- he`s more focused. He`s more determined. He`s more somber. I mean, this is a hard -- a hard time to go   through and he`s had it all on his shoulders. TODD:  Still, no one`s been able to keep Volodymyr Zelenskyy from the front lines in places like Kherson and Bucha compare that to Vladimir Putin`s   isolation in the Kremlin. KEITH DARDEN, AMERICAN UNIVERSITY:  He appears fearful. I mean, you get the sense that of a man alone, whereas, Zelenskyy is among his people, among   his team and in the fight. (END VIDEOTAPE) TODD (on camera):  The analysts we spoke to say that unless Volodymyr Zelenskyy makes some colossal and unforeseen mistakes, his legacy will   likely be very impressive. If Ukraine wins the war, he`ll go down as one of the greatest leaders of the century if Ukraine loses he`s remembered as a   tragic hero. WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which of these nations is the most populated nation on the African continent? Ethiopia, Nigeria, Egypt or South Africa? Nigeria with around 220 million people is the most populated country in Africa. And up next, we`re headed to Nigeria, the country is Africa`s largest democracy and its people are voting to elect their next president and vice   president. The election comes at a time when two-thirds of the population are living in poverty and almost half of the young people are unemployed   the value of the currency there is low while inflation is high and violence and terrorism have reshaped everyday life across the nation. We`ll hear now from CNN international correspondent Larry Madowo as Nigerians are making their voices heard in one of the country`s most   competitive and unpredictable elections in quite some time. (BEGN VIDEOTAPE) LARRY MADOWO, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, it was now close nationwide in Nigeria`s tightest election ever, and what happens now is the   slow painstaking process of counting the vote. What do you have back there is they hold up a ballot one by one, everybody watching has to agree that   that`s the person that they voted for and so that will take a while -- which is why we can`t predict exactly when the results will be known.  The independent National Electoral Commission says they will do it speedily it might be a couple of days until we know. There were a few reported   instances of violence and parts of Lagos and other parts of the country. But these are isolated. It`s not a pattern that we can see at least   apparently.  There were also at least polling stations where voting didn`t take place because of insecurity and security has been a major issue for voters in   this election. But the election is taking part in the backdrop of a major fuel and cash shortage. It`s led to some chaotic scenes at gas stations and   at banks and now whoever becomes an expression of Nigeria has to deal with an economy on the verge of crumbling there are people running, but only   three men have a realistic chance of becoming the next president of Africa`s most populous nation.  During election is a massive logistical nightmare. Ninety-three million registered voters is more than the next 14 West African nations combined.   So it`s sort of like organizing election for an entire subcontinent in just one day, and that`s why at this location for instance, two of the polling   stations there were no votes happening and they don`t understand why but people we spoke to told us that we wait for as long as it takes because   they want to make a statement in this election. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, sports fans. Take me out to the ball game. Just don`t make me stay all day. New rules in Major League Baseball aimed at speeding   up the game or taking spring training by storm. MLB is implementing a pitch clock, sort of like a shot clock in basketball. Pitchers and batters, they   can`t take their good old time anymore, just 15 seconds between pitches with empty bases, 20 seconds when there are runners on base. If pitchers   don`t get the pitch off in time, it counts as a ball for the batter.  But the rule also states that if the batter isn`t ready by eight seconds left well like the Padres Manny Machado found out, they`re going to get a   strike called against him. Well, with this new rule, we`re seeing spring training games finishing around to minutes faster than last year`s average of three hours and three   minutes. We`ve seen some games that finished an hour faster.  Now some other big rule changes this season, pitchers can only attempt two pick-off throws per at bat. The size of the bases is increasing from 15   square inches to 18, and defenses can no longer shift their infielders. Players have about a month to retrain their brains before the season   opening day is March 30th. For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a two-month-old baby that already weighs 50 pounds meet Petunia, a two-month-old baby hippopotamus at the   Metro Richmond Zoo in Virginia. And not just any hippo, Petunia and her mama Iris are pygmy hippos and there are fewer than mature pygmy hippos   remaining in the world. So with each step and with each splash in the pool, Petunia is keeping hope for these hippos alive. All right. Time`s almost up for today but for all my go-getters out there, one more thing. Remember complacency is the constant enemy so outwork   everyone every single day. Shout out to West Lauderdale High school in Collinsville, Mississippi. Go Knights!  We hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-02-28
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey there, everyone. Terrific Tuesday to you. I`m Coy Wire. We have a special edition of CNN 10 today. We`ll end with our typical 10 out of 10 story, but we`re going to start with a feature piece on the   future, specifically of travel. Planes, trains and automobiles those are typically the modes of transportation we think about when we travel today, but some folks are   reimagining a future where the new modes of transportation are so efficient and so fast. It could break the speed of sound. That would make the entire   world more accessible. Instead of going to a friend`s house across town for dinner, someday we might be talking about zipping over to a friend`s house   across an ocean. One of the potential new forms of travel in CNN`s "The Next Frontier": kind of reminds me of a scene from that blockbuster movie "Elf". (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Through the sea of swirly, twirly gum drops. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  That`s right. Being shot through a tube super-fast. CNN business correspondent Rahel Solomon has more about "The Next Frontier". (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  Whether through the air, along the track or on the road, modern day transportation has transformed the way   we travel on a global scale, allowing mobility like never before. But as growing populations and densely packed cities stress these systems,   innovators around the world are imaginating faster more sustainable ways to get from A to B. From supersonic planes to hyperloop pods, what may seem like a pipe dream today could be the future of transit as early as three decades from now. To envision the future of travel, you should first look to the past. To a city that heralded modern day transportation, innovation. ALISYN MALEK, MANAGING DIRECTOR, NEWLAB DETROIT:  Detroit is the Motor City it`s known the world over. We put the world on wheels. It was here that   Henry Ford pioneered the production lines that allowed us to more quickly produce vehicles in a way that improved quality and allowed more people to   be able to afford cars. I`m Alisyn Malek and I`m the managing director of Newlab Detroit. I`m working to help bring a better, more prosperous vision of mobility for   everyone around the world. When I think about urban mobility, some of the key pillars that are really critical for that to be successful are accessibility, how easy are the   mobility solutions to get to how frequent are the services running, what areas are covered. As we look towards 2050, we`re going to be getting up   close to 9 billion people. From a transportation perspective, it`s really about options and making sure that everybody has at least two if not more of how they can get   around. A lot of the systems that we`re using were great. They are still great, but we actually need to think about what other solutions can we put out that   are useful and also create a great user experience. SOLOMON:  One solution that`s certainly gotten a lot of hype over the last decade is the hyperloop. The proposed train in a tube is looking to upend   the way we travel, with speeds up to a thousand kilometers per hour it could zoom across an entire continent and just a few hours. Netherlands-based Hardt Hyperloop is aiming to bring this high-speed technology to life. MARS GEUZE, CO-FOUNDER, HARDT HYPERLOOP:  Our vision is to create a world where distance doesn`t matter, where it`s possible for you to be much more   free in where you live, work and how you travel, to really shrink the world for people to live in. To me, the next frontier is to realize sustainable, high-speed and convenient transport of passengers and goods. SOLOMON:  This future forward concept is actually built on the backbone of a 19th century idea where compressed air propelled rail cars through a   network of pipes. Today, hyperloop technology is based on two key mechanisms, removing aerodynamic drag through vacuum-like tubes and   removing friction through magnetic levitation or maglev, which makes the pods float and move forward. Together, these systems allow hyperloop to   achieve ultra-fast speeds. GEUZE:  Now, we`re in the first integrated test track that we`ve built. We`ve tested a 4,000 kilo or 8,000 pounds vehicle to really show the normal   loads that you would have on a tube and that you can still have your levitation system carry that weight. MALEK:  Hyperloop as a technology is very interesting. It does work. You`re cutting down on things like drag and friction. High level from a basic physics perspective, that`s really interesting. SOLOMON:  And according to Geuze, those properties of physics are what make hyperloop better for the environment. GEUZE:  In a hyperloop, because you remove the aerodynamic resistance, you reduce the energy consumption and therefore you become a much more   sustainable solution. SOLOMON:  Companies across the globe are racing to make their own hyperloop, but Geuze says it`s more collaborative than competitive with a   collective goal to make the world more connected. GEUZE:  There`s already a lot of work being done on setting up a regulatory framework to ensure that we finally converge to a single interoperable   hyperloop network. SOLOMON:  Seven pioneering hyperloop companies have announced they are joining forces to launch the first global hyperloop association. It   includes companies like Transpod, Hyperloop One and Zeleros. This newly formed pact aims to help grow this emerging transportation market as well as work with government and regulatory agencies on policy   making. As we look to the future for hyperloop, Malek says the technology is there it`ll come down to how it performs against current options. MALEK:  How does the capability of hyperloop match up against competitive technologies, and does it have a reason to win? We`re still seeing really   great performance out of technologies like maglev trains, which are being used in Asia quite a bit already. GEUZE:  I think is realistic that in 2015, you could have a global hyperloop network up and running. What motivates me the most is that if we   can get this done, it will have a massive impact in bringing sustainability to our mobility patterns. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right. Continuing with our news on travel, we`ll take a look at the original form of travel and that`s by foot. And sometimes when you   travel, you want to travel in style. Well, what say you about these kicks that took New York fashion week by storm? The aptly named Big Red Boot make   you look like you walked right out of a Super Mario game. Would you rock `em? I don`t know if I would. CNN`s Jeanne Moos has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  These boots are made for flaunting fashion influencers are styling them. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It`s a goofy shoe. I give them a 10 out of 10. MOOS:  Even influencers of the grandpa generation. Wrestler Seth Rollins pretends stomped his opponent wearing big red boots. Ever since they went on sale for 350 bucks and sold out in minutes, fashionistas can`t shut up about the Big Red Boots created by the art   collective MSCHF. They do make you want to touch them. STEVE NATTO, TIKTOK/@STEVENATTO24:  Yeah, yeah. MOOS:  YouTube sneakerhead Steve Natto found that out when he wore them to sneaker con. NATTO:  And some people asked to touch the shoot. MOOS:  How do they feel? Well, the top part --   NATTO:  Its flexible but the bottom part is definitely not. MOOS:  Steve says they`re comfy. He wore them all day without pain. Their creator describes them as cartoonish. Some refer to them as Astro Boy boots. And though they`re easy to put on, getting them off can get you stuck if you`re not wearing your perfect size. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  My foot got stuck so I had to do -- I have to do what I had to do, man. MOOS:  Now they`re showing up on everyone from puss in big red boots to the character boots from Dora the Explorer to Tony Soprano paired with a   bathrobe. People wanted to buy them right off Steve`s feet offering --   NATTO:  I got like 800, 900, a thousand. I think I got like 1,300 or 1,400. They just kind of kept going up. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right. All you boot-tiful people, thanks for spending part of your day with us. Today is February 28th, National Pancake Day. So happy   stacking if that`s your speeding and try them with peanut butter if you`re feeling frisky. Shout out to Schroeder Middle School today in Grand Forks, North Dakota. Go Raiders! Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube   channel. What is within influences what happens without. So, let`s get our minds right today. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-03-01
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Wonderful Wednesday to you. I know we`re just halfway through the week but we`re going to keep grinding   and shining because that`s just what we do. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10, and we`ve got a rendezvous with the news. We`re going to start with news on a vegetable shortage in the United Kingdom. Certain fruits and veggies are having to be rationed at most major   supermarkets and four of the biggest supermarkets in the United Kingdom say they`re putting purchase limits on some staple items like tomatoes peppers   and cucumbers. Experts say this could go on for months. Some farmers are saying that they`re not harvesting any tomatoes, peppers or eggplants when they usually   do at this time of year. A number of factors like bad weather conditions in Spain and Morocco, high energy costs over the winter and even the impact of   Brexit and the labor shortages are causing the lack of production. Here`s CNN anchor and correspondent Isa Soares in London who`s been speaking with local shoppers. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ISA SOARES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Row upon row of empty baskets, empty shelves. A supply gap in fruit and veg has hit UK supermarkets, the   shortages affecting shoppers nationwide. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I went for lunch, and I couldn`t find it like tomatoes cucumber or lettuce. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It was quite annoying when you weren`t trying to get your private day in, and you can`t actually get it. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The fruits I want to they`re gone, nothing there. SOARES:  To deal with the shortages, major British supermarkets are imposing limits on items like tomatoes cucumbers and peppers. The UK`s minister for the environment food and rural affairs said a disruption should only last a few weeks, and meanwhile encouraged people to   eat more seasonally. Let them eat turnips, she said. THERESE COFFEY, UK MINISTER FOR ENVIRONMENT:  I`m conscious that consumers want a year-round choice and that is what our supermarkets and food and   growers` food producers and growers around the world try to satisfy. SOARES:  Supermarkets are blaming the recent shortages on poor weather conditions in key growing regions. Britain produces a fraction of the food   it consumes, relying instead on overseas imports. And key supplies in southern Europe and North Africa, in particular Spain and Morocco, have seen harvests hit by extreme weather conditions. But while climate change plays a significant role in warmer than average temperatures, the government faces another inconvenient truth -- Brexit,   the cause of widespread supply chain disruption. LIZ WEBSTER, CHAIR OF SAVE BRITISH FARMING:  Because of the interruption with trade and Europe who kind of underpin our food supply, it means that   there`s less food coming in from Europe. We`re producing less food. So basically, our food security is in real trouble. SOARES:  Labor shortages due to a lack of migrant workers and soaring energy prices following Russia`s invasion of Ukraine have pushed the gap   even wider as farmers struggle with front-end costs. And those costs are passed on to the consumer. Consumers already grappling with record high   grocery prices and the worst cost of living crisis in decades. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Where would you find the world`s oldest airport? Paris, France; Hamburg, Germany; Maryland, USA; or North Carolina, USA? Flights began at Maryland`s College Park Airport in 1909 when Wilbur Wright trained two military pilots. And up next, we`re continuing with part two of our feature from yesterday on the future of travel. New technology in the years to come will likely   change travel as we know it forever. The planes, trains and automobiles we use today may someday be as antiquated as the horse and buggy. Thought leaders in the travel industry are formulating plans that might make travel faster, cheaper and safer. From hyperloops to air taxis to   supersonic jets, here`s CNN`s Rahel Solomon with more on "The Next Frontier". (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  From highways to railways, flight paths to bike lanes, we have plenty of mobility options on   the ground and in the air. But could the next frontier in transit take place over water? One sea-bearing startup is looking to turn coastlines into corridors. BILLY THALHEIMER, CEO, REGENT:  Water transportation is super important because 40 percent of the world lives within coastal communities. I`m Billy Thalheimer, co-founder and CEO at Regent. MIKE KLINKER, CTO, REGENT:  I`m Mike Klinker, one of the co-founders and CTO at Regent. THALHEIMER:  The next frontier is better transportation and when I say better, I mean efficient and sustainable. It`s faster, it`s easy and   affordable and accessible. SOLOMON:  Rhode Island-based company Regent is aiming to enhance the way we travel between seaboard cities and islands with a new mode of   transportation, the sea glider. KLINKER:  The sea glider is really a mix between a boat and airplane. You took the two, smashed them together. THALHEIMER:  They combined the affordability and accessibility and convenience of a boat, of ferry transportation with the high speed and long   ranges of an aircraft. SOLOMON:  The all-electric maritime vehicle is designed to float, foil and fly along dock-to-dock routes. KLINKER:  The sea glider has three modes of operation. It can be floating so like a normal boat would, floating on the surface of the water, driving   around in the inner harbor areas. It has a hydrofoiling mode where you`re up above the surface of water on these still so the passengers and the   vehicle are insulated with any waves. The last mode is the fly mode. SOLOMON:  The sea glider takes advantage of a few water and air efficiencies to operate. Underwater wings called hydrofoils help lift the   sea glider, reduce drag and allow for a smooth ride above the waves. When it`s time to take off, the hydrofoils retract and the sea glider won`t fly   within a wingspan of the water surface, benefiting from an aerodynamic principle called ground effect to glide along a cushion of air. KLINKER:  The sea gliders were powered by 12 by 100 horsepower electric motors and propellers on the leading edge of the wing. Those are all fueled   by battery technologists, the same batteries that go into electric cars today. SOLOMON:  The first sea glider called Viceroy will carry 12 passengers, two crew and service short hauls up to 290 kilometers at speeds just under 300   kilometers per hour. Regent is still in the prototype phase, but Thalheimer says they`ve already proven that technology works. THALHEIMER:  Regent just hit our two-year anniversary. We built the first sea glider prototype and actually proved that this mode of transportation   is possible. This is how we typically test our quarter scale prototype sea glider. So, we`re really experimenting with all operations floating, foiling. When you get out of this tight area like this out into the open water, that`s when we take off and we become that wing and ground effect that   high-speed flying vehicle. SOLOMON:  And inside, they`re developing the avionics which will be operated by a captain. KLINKER:  There`s really two ways that you control the sea glider. You have a power lever and a side stick joystick. So, think of it like you can turn   left right with the joystick and you can go tell the vehicle to go fast or go slow. It`s very intuitive, much like driving a car or driving a boat. SOLOMON:  While Regent seems to be moving along rather quickly, the co- founders say it has an all been smooth sailing. KLINKER:  One of the biggest challenges for building a sea glider is that we are really pushing physics to the max. So, it`s really the combination   of all these different really advanced technologies that allows us to do this full mission, but it`s really a physics challenge for us. THALHEIMER:  I think the other challenge we had was just the fact that this is so new this has not existed before. So, as we`ve gone out to customers,   there`s a lot of education we need to do. You know, what is it? How does it work? How is it crude? How is it certified? SOLOMON:  Thalheimer says they have a $7 billion backlog in pre-orders across the airline and fairy industries. As for next steps, Regent is   currently building a full-scale prototype and has ambitions for passenger test flights by the end of 2024, and by 2050, they hope to have large   capacity sea gliders in operation with ranges up to 800 kilometers. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, sticking with our aviation theme, a record-breaking paper airplane. A team of young Boeing engineers   put themselves on the map when they set a new Guinness World Record by folding, then flying a paper airplane that went 290 feet. Holy origami,   that star near the length of a football field y`all. It took them minutes to fold the plane just right, making sure to craft it with as much weight   as possible, helping them create the greatest amount of momentum after the toss. Speaking of map, dad joke alert, I got an email the other day explaining how to read maps backwards. It was spam. Shout out to Stevens Middle School in Pasco, Washington. We see you. And I`ll see all of you tomorrow. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-03-02
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. Happy Friday eve. It`s Thursday, March 2nd. I`m Coy Wire and we are so grateful that you`re   spending part of your day with us right here on CNN 10. Let`s start today with the latest reporting on the origins of COVID-19. It`s been nearly three years since the pandemic began and we`re still   trying to figure out answers about how exactly this virus was able to infect so many people and take so many lives.  Reporting this week states that with, quote, low confidence, the U.S. Department of Energy and the director of the FBI endorse a lab leak theory,   meaning the virus accidentally escaped from a lab in Wuhan, China. Low confidence according to the office of the director of national intelligence   generally means that the information is scant, questionable or very fragmented or that the intelligence community has significant concerns   about the sources.  One of the main reasons that there is so much uncertainty about the virus`s origins is that China has not been transparent and willing to communicate   openly with their knowledge and information.  Now others within the U.S. intelligence community and many scientists maintain however that this virus developed naturally in animals and then   started to spread to humans in an outbreak at a market. Republicans in the House of Representatives on a COVID subcommittee are committed to   investigating the issue and finding the origin of the virus. Here`s CNN chief investigative correspondent Pamela Brown with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PAMELA BROWN, CNN CHIEF INVESTIGATIVE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  More than three years after the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. The theory that   the virus originated from a lab in Wuhan, China in the spotlight. The Department of Energy now saying in an updated classified report, that it   believes with low confidence that the virus accidentally escaped from a lab, but that theory remains a minority opinion within the U.S.   intelligence community. JAKE SULLIVAN, U.S NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR:  Some elements of the Intelligence Community have reached conclusions on one side, some on the   other a number of them have said they just don`t have enough information to be sure. BROWN:  Early in the pandemic, many prominent scientists discredited the so-called lab leak theory. One group writing a letter published in The   Lancet Medical Journal saying, "We stand together to strongly condemn conspiracy theories suggesting that COVID-19 does not have a natural   origin."  But other medical professionals have long refused to rule it out. DR. SCOTT GOTTLIEB, FORMER FDA COMMISSIONER:  These kinds of lab leaks happen all the time, actually, even here in the United States, we`ve had   mishaps. And in China, the last six known outbreaks of SARS 1 have been out of labs. BROWN:  Even Dr. Anthony Fauci, the longtime director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, agreed it was possible. DR. ANTHONY FAUCI, DIRECTOR, U.S. NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ALLEGERGY & INFECTIOUS DISEASES:  It might possibly have been something that Chinese   were doing a virus that they isolated in the wild, and we`re having it in the lab and then somehow it escaped out. I don`t think that happened, but I   have an open mind. BROWN:  According to the intelligence community`s assessment, first published in 2021, the origins of the virus will remain elusive until China   cooperates with global investigations. Why at this point, do you say it`s possible maybe even probable that the virus came from a lab and accidentally leaked out? JAMIE METZL, SENIOR FELLOW, ATLANTIC COUNCIL:  The SARS-CoV-2 virus has an ancestral origin and a type of horseshoe bat, that doesn`t exist in Wuhan.   If this comes from nature, there would have to be some evidence of it coming from nature. Right now, we don`t have that evidence. BROWN:  Now, House Republicans are demanding more information from the State Department, FBI and DOE on the origins of COVID-19.  REP. BRAD WENSTRUP (R-OH):  I want to make sure that we are readying ourselves for the next pandemic. If we will and the more we can learn about   natural origins and/or possible lab leak, then the better off we`re going to be. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: An object traveling at a supersonic speed is traveling faster than -- 200 miles per hour, the speed of light, the speed of sound or the speed of a   hedgehog? Here comes the boom, a supersonic object is traveling faster than the speed of sound. Continuing now with our series on the future of travel, we take to the skies where one company says that they`ll be able to take passengers in   planes that fly twice as fast as commercial planes being used today. And that means getting to where you`re going twice as fast.  But here`s the thing, you`d have to be willing to break the sound barrier to do so and that means you`d be going so fast that the aircraft would   create a sonic boom which according to NASA is as loud as an explosion or thunderclap.  Here`s CNN business correspondent Rahel Solomon with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Planes are a ubiquitous mode of transportation today. They`ve allowed us to link cities,   countries and continents like never before. But what if we could fly faster and experience more in a way that`s also better for the planet. BLAKE SCHOLL, CEO, BOOM SUPERSONIC:  I believe in a future where more people can go more places more often. I think that life happens in person,   that connecting across oceans is incredibly important to our future.  I`m Blake Scholl, founder and CEO at Boom Supersonic.  The last frontier in air travel was more than half a century ago when we went from propeller aircraft into the jet age, and it`s been a long time   since we had a step forward. I think the next frontier is all about making the planet more accessible, about having flights that are faster, more affordable, more convenient and   dramatically more sustainable. SOLOMON:  Just under a decade old, Colorado-based startup Boom is working to bring supersonic travel back to the skies.  SCHOLL:  I started my career as a software engineer, but I`ve been passionate about aviation since I was a kid. And I never understood as a   tech guy why everything in our world was getting faster and better but our flights weren`t. SOLOMON:  Commercial supersonic air travel was first realized in the 1970s when Concord took flight. But after just 27 years, the fleet was retired   due to a number of issues, including noise, expensive overhead and cost prohibitive tickets.  SCHOLL:  The supersonic airplane fundamentally is about being able to go very efficiently at very high speed.  SOLOMON:  Supersonic means flying faster than the speed of sound.  According to NASA, typical speeds for these aircraft range from about 1,200 kilometers per hour to about 2,400.  These speeds are achievable through   powerful engines and a long lean fuselage design. The downside, supersonic travel creates a shock wave or sonic boom that is loud and disruptive over   land, which is why it`s only intended for long hauls across oceans. SCHOLL:  We`re building on a proven foundation and delivering a new capability to passengers. It doesn`t require a massive regulatory change or   any regulatory change at all. We`ve now built XB-1 which is history`s first independently developed supersonic jet, and it`s going to be in the air   here in the next few months, to prove that all of this technology actually works.  SOLOMON:  XB-1 is Boom`s prototype of what will be their first airliner Overture according to Scholl. It`s expected to be capable of going twice as   fast as regular aircraft therefore nearly having transit times. Think San Francisco to Tokyo in six hours or New York to Frankfurt and a little over   four.  With orders already placed from U.S. carriers American and United, Boom has a sky-high goal to get Overture into service by 2029. SCHOLL:  On board the airplane, expect a large spacious interior and beautiful large windows it`s a supersonic airplane actually flies higher   you`ll be able to see the skies a deeper blue actually see the curvature of the earth. All of that adds up to a machine that can take you across oceans   but at roughly the same cost as flying business class today. Ultimately, our goal is to make supersonic flight available to anybody who flies. There are many challenges we still have left to overcome. What we`re doing is complex it`s safety critical it requires a lot of money. But when I look   back to the past, I also see a lot of challenges that we`ve already overcome. And that gives me encouragement that we will continue to do   things that the world says we can`t do.  Supersonic flight is about making the planet dramatically more accessible. When that happens, I think we will live in a very different, more peaceful,   more harmonious, more collaborative future. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And for today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, teamwork makes the dream work for two eagles building. One is in the nest, then another flies   in is like, hey, can you help me with this other one`s like, what this stick? And it`s like, yeah, can you help me put it over there? Sure, no   problem. They pick up the branch and mark it over in perfect rhythm. If I give DJ Nader a beat, he can make them dance. Now, keep in mind, these eagles get to get to be about three feet tall so their nests can get to be about six feet wide. That`s wider than a queen-  size bed. Well done, my feathery friends. Well, that`s about all we have time for today. Thanks to everyone who`s reaching out @coywire on Instagram, Snapchat and TikTok, and thanks to   everyone showing love on our CNN YouTube page. Northside High School in Jackson Tennessee, we see you and we are showing love right back at you. Tomorrow`s Friday, can`t wait. Crush it today and go be awesome. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10.  END     

Date: 2023-03-03
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, lovely people? It`s your boy Coy ready to shine bright with you this first Friday of March. Friday`s rock. But before we get into the weekend, let`s make a strong end to the week. We are fueled up and ready to rock it out with you right here on CNN 10, the   best 10 minutes in news. We`re going to start today with what I call the scroll that squashes your goals, spending too much time on social media. And one social media app   TikTok is looking to put a lockdown on all you`re looking around on their wildly popular platform. On Wednesday, TikTok announced that users under 18 years of age will have their accounts locked after one hour of screen time on the app each day. In   order to continue, users are going to have to enter a password. Now, the company and many experts believe that the feature could improve the digital wellbeing of users by requiring them to actively opt out of a   screen time limit. The new initiative will roll out in the coming weeks and it`s one of the most aggressive moves yet by a social media company to   prevent people from getting caught up in the seemingly endless scrolling that can be really consuming. The move also comes after TikTok, and other   social media platform has faced years of scrutiny of their impact on young users. And TikTok specifically is facing mounting pressure from lawmakers,   some of whom feel the platform should be banned altogether, due in part to online security concerns. How much time do you spend scrolling each day? We could all probably spend a little less time on social media, while apps like TikTok, Instagram and   Snapchat can be really powerful tolls to learn, motivate, inspire and connect us with people. Most experts agree that too much screen time can   have that effect, especially on young people. More now from CNN chief medical correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT:  Everyone knows that screen time probably is a problem for them, whether you`re a teenager or an   adult. We spent too much time on our phones. And what`s amazing is that, you know, look, these phones have not been around that long. So, a lot of people now research and kind of look into how much time are we spending on phones and what can we do about it? Interesting, one piece of data that jumped out at me, the average person will pick up their phone to look at it, just look at it 300-sometimes a   day. So, you`re just constantly doing this, and breaking that cycle, that initial cycle of, look, I don`t even know why I`m picking up my phone, just   doing it, I think was a really important thing that came up over and over again. So, Catherine Price who wrote up a book how to break up with your phone, she says ask these three questions every time you pick up your phone. What   for? Why now? And what else? What else could I be doing instead? It`s just to sort to bring your brain back online for a second so you`re not mindlessly starting to look up your phone. I thought that was really   interesting, something I`ve been doing already in my life. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Let`s continue now with part four of our series on the future of travel, the next frontier. It`s estimated that by the year 2050, the world   population could grow from 7.8 billion to nearly 9 billion. Transportation experts are considering how to support the travel needs for that many   people. But could the solution for congested cities mean zipping around above the streets? Here`s Rahel Solomon with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  It`s not a plane and it`s not a helicopter. But it might just be your aerial ticket to the   next frontier of urban transit. This is VoloCity, an all-electric, manned, drone-like aircraft. It looked like something of a sci-fi film, but this   high-tech flyer is aiming to take off in the very near future. DIRK HOKE, CEO, VOLOCOPTER:  The next frontier for me is that we will see urban mobility coming to life and we will see vehicles flying, bringing us   from A to B, making our life easier and ensuring the smooth end-to-end mobility. My name is Dirk Hoke and I`m the CEO of Volocopter. SOLOMON:  German manufacturer Volocopter has been busy building the flying taxis of the future. HOKE:  I believe in 2050, we will be using mobility air mobility and as a frequent transportation system, as we do today with taxis. SOLOMON:  But Hoke is quick to tell us, they`re not trying to disrupt the travel industry. HOKE:  So, it will not be used where you have an already existing tram, or you have a metro. But in any area where you have very high traffic   congestions, the VoloCity will add more alternatives and options to your daily journey. SOLOMON:  VoloCity is designed for single passenger intercity transit with define roots, like from the airport to a hub in a city center. The aircraft   is classified as eVTOL, or electric vertical take-off and landing. HOKE:  EVTOL means that we use electric motors to lift the vehicle and then to move forward. SOLOMON:  They are pilot controlled, fly at low altitudes and operate like drones. HOKE:  We chose a multicopter design. That means we have 18 motors and rotors, which enables us to fly very stable and fast and safe. SOLOMON:  VoloCity`s current range is 35 kilometers and can reach speeds up to 110 kilometers per hour and it`s all powered by nine swappable battery   packs. HOKE:  We want to be adding a new mobility without adding to the congestion and to the emissions of this world. With that, we decided from the   beginning to fly fully electric. SOLOMON:  Beyond last kilometer transit, Volocopter has plans for a larger integrated portfolio, from the booking platform to the landing platform. HOKE:  We also a designed a Volo Region which will be a five-seater connecting regions and cities up to a distance of 200 kilometers. We have   also the Volodrone which is intended to carry cargo up to 200 kilo, and this is all managed by our software platform which we call VoloIQ, which is   enabling not only to operate these vehicles, but also to maintain the vehicles and, of course, do also the booking and the security check at the   Voloport. Voloports are designed to optimize the charging and the handling of the passenger. We are now leaving the prototype status. We`re really on a very   solid track to go into commercial operation in 2024, in cities like Paris and Rome, because we believe if we can fly in Paris and Rome, we can fly   almost anywhere, because it`s a very complex, very dense urban environment. SOLOMON:  Volocopter`s ultimate goal is autonomous flight. But for now, there are more steps just to get their fleet off the ground. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  There`s still the management of airspace, what are the paths, how do we manage, do we have the regulatory space to allow these   things to be adopted? And I think that`s where you`re going to start to see hopefully soon some pretty interesting conversations taking place. SOLOMON:  And perhaps a bigger hurdle, Hoke says public acceptance. HOKE:  I really hope that people will embrace it, I believe it`s a very, very nice vision of the future to have quite sustainable air taxis. And we   actually believe we will have a big impact on the transportation of the future. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, an unfrogettable riveting story out of Australia, where a man named Dazza created a 3D printed home   for a frog he found hanging out in his fence. He started small, but as his TikTok video of the frog get to rack up more than 20 million views, he got   some frogsome ideas from viewers. The little pad has progressed into an amphibious mansion, complete with a porch, plants and the garden and an infinity edge waterfall pool. Oh,   viewers named the frog Frederick, and the homebuilder says that Frederick has even some friends come over every now and then to visit. Unfrogettable. All right. I want to give a special shout-out to Northwood Middle School in Wakarusa, Indiana. What`s up, lovely people? I also want to show some love to my friends at West View Middle School who sent me like all kinds of great letters and cards, uplifting, motivating   messages and they also sent me this pretty sweet t-shirt right here. Tighten up, everybody. All right. Let`s keep shining. We`re CNN 10 on YouTube. Send your shout-out request there. Have an awesome weekend. And remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END 

Date: 2023-03-06
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, everyone, it`s your boy, Coy. I hope you had a wonderful weekend. I am excited and so grateful to be right here with you   today so we can give each other some good vibes. Let`s dig in and dig deep if we have to, to start this week strong. Speaking of deep, way beneath the surface of one of the great lakes, researchers discovered a ship that had been missing for 128 years.   Officials from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration or NOAA solved the mystery in conjunction with the Thunder Bay National Marine   Sanctuary. The Ironton, a 191-foot wooden schooner barge, sank after colliding with another ship in Michigan`s Lake Huron in 1894. The other   crew survived, but five of the seven crew members of the Ironton did not. The ship was actually first noticed with cutting edge technology back in 2019, and it is in remarkable condition, standing upright with all three   masts still intact, thanks in large part to the cold, fresh water of Lake Huron. Officials kept the discovery a secret until all documentation of the wreck was complete. That way, no divers could potentially disturb this piece of   history. But now there may soon be federal and state permits allowing divers to go explore what lies deep beneath the surface.  Up next, we have an update on one of our CNN heroes. Every year, our CNN Heroes event honors individuals who create positive change and make   extraordinary contributions to humanity. One CNN hero, Teresa Gray, is a nurse from Alaska who takes small teams of volunteer medics to humanitarian crises all around the world through her   nonprofit Mobile Medics.  Well, two days after she heard about the tragic 7.8 magnitude earthquake which impacted Turkey and parts of Syria, Teresa was on a plane on her way   to Turkey to help. Here`s a feature on how Teresa`s work in Turkey is helping people recover from a disaster that took the lives of more than   40,000 people in the region. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) TERESA GRAY, TOP 10 CNN HEROES:  Hi, Auri (ph), I came to see your leg. ANDERSON COOPER, CNN HOST (voice-over):  Alaska nurse Teresa Gray and her nonprofit, Mobile Medics International, have responded to dozens of   humanitarian disasters since 2017, providing free medical care and comfort to more than 30,000 people around the globe.  Last December, she was recognized as one of the year`s top ten CNN Heroes. GRAY:  Being named a CNN hero was amazing. It was like the Oscars of humanitarian work. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Please join me in honoring CNN Hero, Teresa Gray.  GRAY:  It got us exposure internationally. It brought in donations, so now we can go where we`re needed, when we`re needed. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Thousands are dead after a powerful earthquake toppled buildings in Turkey and Syria.  COOPER:  So as the devastating impact of this tragic earthquake became clear, Teresa immediately mobilized to head to Turkey. GRAY:  I need some 100cc Syringes. It`s pretty frantic leading up to a mission. We like to get in as soon as possible. So we`ll be on the ground about 72 hours post-earthquake. OK, so this bag is ready to go. Making sure we have the right equipment, the right medication. We have enough medications and supplies for hundreds of patients. From a trauma dressing to a Band Aid or a Tylenol to antibiotics.  This mission will be completely self-sustaining. The buildings have been substantially damaged, so you can`t stay inside. It`s too dangerous. So   it`s wintertime in Turkey. Yesterday it was 5 below. So we`re going to be sleeping in a tent, eating MREs.  This is not going to be a good time. I`ve got eleven sort of dinners and I`ve only got two breakfast. I get hyper focus. If I get there and I forgot   to pack it. You`re not running to the story. You need to make sure that you`ve got everything you need.  We have to be really careful not to cross the border into Syria. When I put a team together, we need to do a zoom call prior to the mission, so we`re   all sort of on the same page. My goal is to find where we can do the greatest amount of good for the most people in the time that we have.  We need to find a safe place to be. What if somebody forgot their sleeping bag? We don`t speak the language, so I need to find some interpreters. So   these are the things that run through my mind as I`m getting ready to go to the airport. There`s just a whole lot going on. COOPER:  By February 9, just three days after the earthquake, Teresa had landed in Turkey and connected with her team. They soon headed to Hatay   Province, to the town of Samandag. GRAY:  This is beyond destruction. This is apocalyptic. COOPER:  They got right to work. GRAY:  I`m here on the streets of Samandag. We`re doing mobile clinics. And all the people are living here in these tents now because the buildings are   either fallen down or about to fall down, there is no in between. Everything is damaged beyond repair. So we go street to street to street and we stop at these little tent cities. Here is KT (ph), another one of our translators, who`s explaining   to the group, how we need to do things.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Currently we`ve got two lines going. People that have got either chronic or acute problems that will be dealt with. GRAY:  We`re seeing earthquake injuries, lacerations. Did something fall on him in the earthquake? Yesterday, we saw a child who had been trapped in the rubble from the knee down for well over 12 hours. We`re seeing cough, cold, flus from living   together. Whatever it is they need us to look at, we will. But this is what we do every day. Then we go back, sleep in our car, get up the next morning   and do it again.  COOPER:  They treated hundreds of people during their mission, and their interpreter, KT, became name an essential part of the team. GRAY:  KT is the one who brought us to this neighborhood and showed us where the need was.  KT (ph):  Every sick people we went, they told me, say them, thank you. It`s really good for us because we can`t go any doctor. We can`t see any   doctor. We can`t go any hospital. COOPER:  And though KT`s family had taken refuge in a greenhouse. GRAY:  So 15 people living? KT: Yes. GRAY:  This is where they`re going to live for the foreseeable future. COOPER:  They adopted Teresa`s group as their own. This is my new Turkish mama. And these people have taken us in and they`ve allowed us to stay on   their properties. And they`ve given us tea and coffee. Tell her that we are so grateful for her. COOPER:  Another reminder that even in desperate times. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  You`re welcome. COOPER:  Humanity can shine through. GRAY:  I know, I`m so sorry. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia. Which of the following birds is NOT the name of a major professional sports team? Pelicans, Penguins, Parrots or Ducks? Between the NFL, NBA, NHL, MLS and MLB, not one team is named the Parrots. Today`s story getting the 10 out of 10, a pair of parrots pestering players in the middle of a softball game last week.  And we`re talking full on invasion here of a college game between Bradley University and Gardner-Webb. Feathers flying, umpires duck in, and as far   as feather or not, they found out where they came from. Well, here`s CNN`s Jeanne Moos with more. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT:  They took the field, causing a flap. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  There are multiple parrots on the field. MOOS:  Two, to be exact. Delighting. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Just gorgeous birds. MOOS:  And freaking out the women`s softball players at the University of Central Florida`s field, causing an umpire to duck. (Voice-over):  Rain delay, yes. But parrots delay? CHAD STEARS:  That`s absolutely the first. MOOS:  Chad Steers was the home plate umpire when one of the parrots made a home on his shoulder. STEARS:  I felt the wind from the wings and a gasp from the crowd.  MOOS:  Let`s go to the replay. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  One just landed on the umpires. MOOS:  Chad was so unfaith, he pretended to put on his mask as if to resume the game with a parrot on him. When he tried to touch the bird, the parrot   retreated to the other shoulder. Who are these mystery birds? MEGAN BROWN: Tiki is the one who eventually got tired and decided to land on the umpire. Megan Brown owns Tiki and Lelu. She was letting them fly   free behind the stadium. They always come back. BROWN:  Hi, baby. MOOS:  During our interview, the parrots dislodged her glasses, attacked the lens and pecked it. BROWN:  Hi, Lelu. MOOS:  And perched on Megan`s head. She says she`s a little surprised Tiki didn`t nip the umpire when he touched him.  But Chad loved Tiki. STEARS:  It was just a great moment. MOOS:  After about half a minute, one of the grounds crew lured the bird to him and escorted Tiki out. The umpire`s co-workers teased him. STEARS:  Hey, and this is sitting on my desk, you know. MOOS:  Who cares about calling balls and strikes when you`re the target of a bird`s strike? (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Apparently, that parrot thought it was landing on the shoulder of an "umparrot." Special shout out today going to Camden, New York. Camden Middle School, we see you. Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube   Channel. Some motivation Monday for you. Remember, there`s mentum like momentum. So dominate today, and we`ll try to keep it that way moving   forward. We`ll see you all tomorrow. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-03-07
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. Terrific Tuesday to you. I`m Coy Wire. Thank you for spending part of your day with us right here on   CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news.  Now we have to start today with some sad and concerning news out of North Korea. Experts say that North Korea`s chronic food shortages are growing   and so is the number of citizens potentially dying due to starvation. Trade data, satellite images and assessments from the United Nations and South   Korea suggest that the nation is grappling with their lowest food supply since the famine of the 1990s, a famine that caused mass starvation,   killing hundreds of thousands of people.  Experts say the current food shortage is likely due to complications from the COVID pandemic. Three years of closed borders and strict isolation, as   well as floods and storms which offset planting. North Korea is a self- isolated and very secretive country, so it`s difficult to assess or prove what`s really going on there.  Experts say that equal distribution of any available food there is unlikely because the elite and military are prioritized. Now despite the food   shortage which few experts deny, North Korea continues to spend money on missile tests instead of food, and refuses aid from neighboring countries. Here`s CNN`s Paula Hancocks with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Concerns about North Korea`s food crisis are growing. Reports from multiple sources say deaths   due to starvation are likely.  LUCAS RENGIFO-KELLER, PETERSON INSTITUTE FOR INT. ECONOMICS:  Probably its worst point since the famine in the 1990s, which killed three to five   percent of the population. HANCOCKS:  Attentions are being paid at the very top. North Korean leader Kim Jong-un held a workers party meeting this week, calling for a   fundamental change in farming and state economic plans. But many say it is his regime, its chronic mismanagement and isolation that has caused this   crisis.  LINA YOON, HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH:  We`re really talking about three years of no imports of fertilizer. There`s been no input of tools or components to   fix the outdated machinery that they have. HANCOCKS:  An extensive shutdown of borders due to the COVID pandemic meant almost no food or aid was getting into the country. Only in recent months   as minimal trade restarted with China. South Korean officials said last month they believed deaths from starvation are occurring in certain areas,   though provided no evidence.  Its rural development agency estimates that the North`s food production dropped almost four percent last year from the year before. RENGIFO-KELLER:  Food has dipped below the amount needed to satisfy the minimum human elites. So as it stands by that measure, even if you   distributed food perfectly equally which is totally inconceivable, you would have hunger-related deaths. HANCOCKS:  Speaking to South Korea`s foreign minister last week, he said Pyongyang has to decide to help its own people. PARK JIN, SOUTH KOREAN FOREIGN MINISTER:  The only way that North Korea can get out of this trouble is to come back to the dialogue table and accept   our humanitarian offer to the north and make a better choice for the future. HANCOCKS:  The regime`s focus remains on its nuclear and missile program. Seoul`s Ministry of Unification says if Pyongyang had used the money spent   on launching missiles last year for food, it could have bought one million tons, more than enough to cover the annual food shortage. But that focus is   unlikely to shift. YOON:  As the time goes on, the capacity for North Koreans to endure hardship becomes harder and harder, their resilience, you know, runs off   and their -- you know, their resources also decrease. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: In biology, a complete set of DNA in an organism is called what? Genome, chromosome, genetic code, or interphase? Genome is the term for the entire set of DNA instructions for a cell or organism. Thanks to recent breakthroughs in genetics, scientists say they will soon be able to bring back prehistoric creatures that have been extinct for   thousands of years. We could see a woolly mammoth roaming the earth in as little as four years, according to researchers. Now, woolly mammoths were the huge, hairy-looking elephant type beasts marching through the ice age snow about 10,000 years ago. One company,   Colossal Biosciences, says it plans to reincarnate the mammoth using gene editing technology, in a process called de-extinction.  And there are other extinct creatures scientists could bring back as well, like the Tasmanian tiger or the dodo bird. But should they?  As you can imagine, there are plenty of ethical questions about these recent genetic advancements. Here`s CNN`s Rachel crane with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RACHEL CRANE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Your body contains 37.2 trillion cells and within each is a copy of a code consisting of more than   twenty thousand genes and billions of strands of DNA. This code is your genome and it determines everything that makes you you.  What if you could modify that code, bring back extinct species, eliminate hereditary diseases? That is precisely what molecular engineers and   geneticists around the world are working on. GEORGE CHURCH, GENETICS PREOFESSOR, HARVARD MEDICAL SCHOOL:  Genes are what we get and we`re stuck with them and the environment is the only thing we   can change and there`s kind of a limit to how much you can do. But now, if we can change our genes, too, but really in much closer to total control of   our biology and physiology. CRANE:  George Church is one of many, using a revolutionary gene-editing technique called CRISPR-Cas9, which allows you to modify DNA sequences.  CHURCH:  CRISPR is a way that you can design and target a particular part of your genome and change it to something else, or you can delete a gene.   You can make all sorts of edits very precisely. CRANE:  CRISPR is kind of like having the fine delete replace function for DNA. No one actually invented the process. It happens naturally.  Scientists discovered that bacteria alter their DNA to defend against viruses, essentially storing part of a virus so they can identify target   and attack the virus if it comes back. Researchers realize the tools bacteria use to do this were Cas proteins, nature`s genetic scissors.   Geneticists are now using these proteins to make their own targeted changes to DNA. Scientists have been messing with genomes for years. So what`s the big deal with CRISPR? CHURCH:  This is dramatically different. I mean, it`s like 10,000 times easier. This can be used in agriculture, where you can change any plant or   animal, can be used to eliminate invasive species. What`s most exciting about CRISPR is our ability to alter long-standing epidemics like malaria and HIV. CRANE:  And that could potentially save millions of lives. CHURCH:  So here we grow human cells, elephant cells. We can do cloning procedures. CRANE:  It turns out that you can make pretty pretties by tweaking small strands of DNA, by making changes to the DNA of the Asian elephant,   researchers in Church`s lab are working to bring the woolly mammoth back to life. CHURCH:  The difference between a woolly mammoth and Asian elephant is actually quite subtle at the DNA level. CRANE:  What am I going to see a woolly mammoth in Jurassic park? JOE GETSY, RESEARCH FELLOW, HARVARD MEDICAL SCHOOL:  Right. So an actual full woolly mammoth I think is still a few years down the road. We can just   change one gene and then the next gene and then soon we have thousands of genes that are changed. The elephant cell will have the exact same DNA   sequence as the woolly mammoth cell.  CRANE:  Paint this picture of what the future looks like as a result of CRISPR in your eyes? GETSY:  I suppose the wildest description would be that you have some 150- year-old people that look like their 20-year-old riding on a mammoth. Is that why wild? CRANE:  But CRISPR is not without controversy. If you can make a mammoth, consider what you can do with a person`s DNA? For the first time, scientists in China use CRISPER to edit the genomes of human embryos.  People fear CRISPR could lead to designer babies. How do we prevent that from happening? CHURCH:  We shouldn`t be playing. We should be engineering and I think that`s what we are doing.  CRANE:  Where do you think the moral and ethical boundary is? CHURCH:  Safety. I think safety is number one, just like any new technology or new drug, we should try to make it as safe as possible. If we don`t do   anything, then people are definitely going to die of malaria next year. A lot of people are going to die of HIV if we don`t do something.  If we focus on why it`s useful, then that changes the conversation to, you know, what`s the alternative? (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And for today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, ice cream lovers that`ll not be denied their treats, this Dairy Queen in Moorhead,   Minnesota, opens every year on March 1st, no matter what the weather is. And if you`ve ever been to Minnesota in March, it is not warm and toasty.  These faithful fans lining up on opening day, all bundled up, ready to dominate some Dairy Queen blizzards in all sorts of snow. Ice cream, you   scream, we all scream for ice cream no matter what the weather. My favorite flavor is Oreo. Well, at least for now. What`s yours? I want to give a special shout out to Springdale Middle School in Springdale, Arkansas, rise up. Also for all the students out there, get you   some teacher time this Tuesday. Go on and dap up your teacher, give them a handshake or high five, let them know you appreciate them.  See you tomorrow, everyone. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-03-08
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Hope you`re off to a great day so far. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, and it`s #yourword Wednesday. So,   follow me at Coy Wire on Insta, Snapchat, and TikTok, and put your challenge words in the comments section of my most recent post. And we`ll   try to work one, fun one into tomorrow`s show. Now, we start today with the back-to-back winter storms in California`s mountain communities that have trapped people in their homes with intense   snow for nearly two weeks. Now, the Sierra Nevada region already saw 38 inches over a 24 hour period, and now there`s another round of snow headed   that way. And many people in the San Bernardino Mountains are getting desperate, unable to leave their homes as their food and medicine supplies   are starting to run out. Driveways are blocked. Cars are buried under piles of snow as high as a second story window. But even if they could leave, many businesses,   including grocery stores, have been forced to close. Let`s hear now from CNN National Correspondent Camila Bernal, who`s in California as the state braces for even more snow and people grow even more   concerned. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CAMILA BERNAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Residents here are still frustrated and so upset just because of how long this entire process is taking. There are   people here that have been at their homes for more than 10 days without being able to leave, without access to food, a grocery store, a pharmacy. Here behind me is the only grocery store in town. And the roof collapsed because there was so much snow accumulated at the top of the grocery store   that it no longer is open. And so people have to rely on donations. This community is coming together. As you can see here behind me, they brought firewood. And the problem is that I talked to other people who have   told me, look, I can`t even turn on my fireplace because there is so much snow. So, the ones that can, they are here trying to get anything they can   to make their lives a little bit easier. I`ve talked to people who are stuck higher up in the mountains who tell me look, I cannot even make it to the places where they`re giving out these   donations. And so that frustration just accumulates day after day after day. Authority is saying they are making progress. They say that so far,   they`ve been able to essentially clear about 85% of the roads in this area. The problem is there`s a lot of side streets that are still blocked off because of the snow and many of the residents telling me that that is why   they can`t leave their homes. They`re wanting for this entire process to move a little bit faster. But as of now, authorities are saying that they   have to wait. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Up Next TikTok could soon be banned in the United States along with other social media apps deemed as security threats by lawmakers, both   Republicans and Democrats have united and voiced their concerns about foreign owned apps like TikTok. And on Tuesday, the Senate Intelligence   Committee unveiled a bipartisan Senate bill that would give President Biden the ability to ban them. Politicians and cybersecurity experts have said that foreign technology coming into America, if not regulated, could be used to spy on Americans or   take data from them. Or it could be used as a tool to promote certain ideologies. In other words, it could be used to program our minds. CNN Technology Reporter Brian Fung tells us about the potential impact of this bill. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BRIAN FUNG, CNN TECHNOLOGY REPORTER:  This bill could lead to a national ban of TikTok. And it`s important to point out here that this legislation   is still in its very early stages, but the -- it would give the authority to the Commerce Department to take steps including up to and including a   ban of TikTok. The bill doesn`t specifically target TikTok, but rather kind of talks about an overall category of technologies that might be deemed to be national   security risks, whether that`s TikTok or Huawei or other companies that might raise national security concerns. The whole intent behind this bill, according to Senator Warner, is to prevent a so-called whackable situation where the government has to come up   with new legal authorities or new bills designed to target individual companies. And this would just give them, you know, a bigger, more flexible   tool. TikTok has acknowledged that the trust issue with policymakers is real and that it`s going to take time to address that. And it`s also said that the   ultimate goal is to have U.S. user data only be accessible by TikTok`s U.S. employees. Now, TikTok`s CEO spoke yesterday at a Harvard Business Review conference, and here`s a little bit more of what he said. SHOU ZAPORIZHZHIA CHEW, TIKTOK CEO: I think the first thing I would say is that we take these concerns extremely seriously. The Chinese government has   actually never asked us for U.S. user data. And we`ve said this on the record, that even if we were asked for that, we will not provide that. FUNG: Now, we`re seeing here that TikTok CEO is saying, look, it`s going to take time to, you know, gain trust with policymakers. We`re taking these   voluntary steps to improve our security and safeguards. But on the other hand, you have lawmakers like Senator Warner who say, you know, we need action right now. And so, what we`re seeing here is this   mismatch, this contrast between TikTok on the one hand, you know, saying, let`s take some time here, and lawmakers who want to really take some   action right this moment. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second Trivia. What TV cartoon premiered in 1962 and featured a futuristic family traveling in flying cars? The Flintstones, The   Jeffersons, The Jetsons, or the Brady Bunch? Said to have been set 100 years after its premiere, The Jetsons featured a high-tech family flying in the year 2062. Shows like The Jetsons or movies like Back to the Future make viewers ponder what technology might look like in the future. But here in the year   2023, we`re less than 40 years away from that imagined future of The Jetsons.  And at the rate technology advances these days, futuristic worlds actually seem to be just around the corner. So how far away are we from being able   to zip up and over traffic jam streets? From being able to hover around a city from rooftop to rooftop? We`ll hear from a tech expert who tells us   what`s holding us back and what such a futuristic city of travel might look like. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEREMY WHITE, TECH WRITER, SPEAKER AND CONSULTANT:  We`ve been chasing the stream of flying cars since The Jetsons. And Sci-fi has led us to believe   that we`re going to be having these vehicles, but it`s really not the case. eVTOL stands for Electric Vertical Take-off and Landing. It is a vehicle, electrically powered, that can lift off the ground vertically, then go   forwards to a certain destination, and then land vertically as well. And there are a number of companies at advanced stages of creating these vehicles, but we`re somewhere away yet. There are a number of ways that   these eVTOLs could be piloted. Most of the ways at the moment seem to be focusing on having an actual pilot, a human, at the helm. So, they have to   be certified. They have to be made legal. They have to obviously have the regulations and how they would fly, where they would fly, who`s going to be   in charge, who`s going to be responsible, whether the vehicles are going to be safe or not. And this is what`s holding these vehicles back. It`s an interesting question, talking about how eVTOLs will fit into the cityscape, because cities are already very crowded, and so where will you   use them? Most people right now are saying they`re going to operate as a taxi service. So going from existing heliports and then off to heliport,   say, at the airport, so utilizing the existing infrastructure in cities in order to make these things work. So, there you`ve got some pinch points too, because those infrastructure points are already being used by helicopters and other aircraft. And so   you`ve got to actually fit in with those. You`ve got to fit in with their flight plans, and also then you`ve got to work out how to charge them. And   no one`s got to that point yet. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, we are just over a week away from St. Patrick`s Day, so today`s 10 out of 10 story is very fitting. A woman from Wisconsin might be   the luckiest person in the world, setting the new Guinness World Record for the largest collection of four-leaf clovers. Gabriella Gerhardt started   hunting four leaf clovers all the way back in the year 2010. She now has more than 119,000 of them, that`s 7000 more than the previous record FYI. Now, learning about this story got me thinking. What`s so lucky about this leaf? According to Celtic tradition, four-leaf clovers have magical powers   of protection and are able to ward off evil and bad luck. But it`s not clear to historians where the idea began. OK, remember to send all those #yourword Wednesday submissions had so many good ones last time. We want to give a special shout out to Laconia Middle   School in Laconia, New Hampshire, rise up and thanks for subscribing to our CNN 10 YouTube Channel. Also today, March 8, is International Women`s Day. So special shout out to all the inspiring, uplifting and awesome women in our lives. Much love and   many blessings. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-03-09
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, hello. It is Thursday, so happy Friday Eve. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. If you`re having a good week, keep it   going. If you`re having a rough week, keep going. Remember, the strongest steel has burned in the hottest coals, and our tough times can make us   tougher. Thank you for spending part of your day with us. Let`s get you to the news of the day. Thousands of government delegates across China are gathering   for the nation`s biggest annual political meeting, known as the "Two Sessions." Two parties in China gathering separately for meetings, but at the same time, one is the National People`s Congress, which is the supreme state   authority for China`s communist government. The other is the Chinese People`s Political Consultative Conference, which is an advisory group   without real legislative power. Thousands of delegates come to Beijing during this period. And traditionally, media, which is usually allowed to attend, gets the rare   opportunity to speak with normally elusive government delegates. But even though China lifted its zero COVID policy and media is allowed to attend again this year, delegates weren`t very gregarious. In fact, most   media were still denied close access to them. CNN International`s Selina Wang was there, giving us a rare look at the Two Sessions and showing us   just how shut out reporters are, those state medias telling a different story about the access reporters were getting. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SELINA WANG, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Thousands of government delegates across China are gathering for the biggest annual   political meeting known as the Two Sessions. It`s the first since China abandoned its zero COVID policy. But reporters covering the event are still stuck in a COVID bubble, required to stay overnight at a quarantine hotel and get an onsite PCR   test. (On camera):  We just left the Quarantine Hotel. We`re now headed to the venue. Everything is highly controlled. (Voice-over):  The foreign media bus gets dropped off at Tiananmen Square. (On camera):  It is very rare for journalists to get access to this. As you can see, though, there`s heavy security. There are guards everywhere.   Normally, the Two Sessions is the rare chance for media to get up and close to China`s top leadership. Right here on the steps of the Great Hall of the   People, this is normally where you will see media trying to doorstop the top leadership. But as you can see, this year we, the media, were   completely separate from the rest of the leaders. (Voice-over):  The Two Sessions is a carefully choreographed event. The new government shakeups that the rubber stamp parliament will vote on have one   unifying goal, to strengthen Xi Jinping and the ruling Communist Party`s Power. And the COVID restrictions are the perfect tool for Beijing to   control the message. (On camera):  So, media has to apply to get access to specific events. We`re not granted approval to all of them. And this is a media area inside   the Great Hall of the People. As you can see, it`s pretty empty, so it`s clearly not an issue of capacity. (Voice-over):  Some of the events during the weeklong meeting allow select reporter questions, including Qin Gang`s first press conference as China`s   new Foreign Minister. He said that conflict with the U.S. Is inevitable if Washington does not change course. Qin Gang called Washington`s approach a reckless gamble,   accused the U.S. of creating a crisis over Taiwan, defended China`s partnership with Russia as imperative, and said it has not supplied weapons   to Russia or Ukraine. Meanwhile, Chinese state media is portraying the legislative meeting as an open event where journalists can freely operate. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Sri Lanka. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I`m from Luke News (ph). It`s an amazing country. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The assemblies also offered journalists the opportunity to put questions to the Chinese premier and ministers. WANG:  But under these controls, spontaneous run-ins with top leaders like the premier and ministers are out of reach. But after today`s meeting   ended, we had a few minutes to approach some delegates, which are a curated group of local representatives. This delegate is part of the Zhuang ethnic group from the southwestern Guangxi province. She says, this is her first time attending the Congress   and she feels happy to see her motherland becoming stronger. The rest of the delegates quickly rush out before we have a chance to approach them. The question is, how much of these COVID controls will   remain in post pandemic China? It limits access even more to China`s already extremely opaque political machine. This much is clear, the communist leadership only wants the world to see one narrative from China, that is the image of unity, strength and victory. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia. Which of these holds the current title of planet at the most moons? Jupiter, Saturn, Mars, or Venus? To date, astronomers have identified 92 moons orbiting Jupiter, giving it the top spot. And it is one of those moons, specifically that scientists are getting ready to explore more. Why? Because they think that there may be life   there. The name of the moon is Europa. And it`s already been discovered that just beneath Europa`s icy surface there`s an ocean. In fact, it was   the first ocean ever discovered on another celestial body. Let`s learn more about the probes that NASA and the European Space Agency are sending to Jupiter and its moons and what they might find. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Jupiter has three moons with oceans underneath their icy shells. They`re called Ganymede, Callisto, and Europa. Earthlings have   been curious about these moons and their potential to house life for a long time. NASA first sent probes in part to get a closer look in 1977. Jupiter is a gas giant. That means it doesn`t have a surface. It`s a swirl of gases that can dense into a smoldering ocean of hydrogen at its core.   It`s very similar to our sun in this way. But unlike the sun, it doesn`t fuse hydrogen atoms into helium to create energy and heat. Now back to those first NASA probes, they observed long lines and dark spots on the moon Europa. Typically, moons have cratered surfaces. But   these images tipped scientists off that there might be an ocean beneath Europa`s icy exterior. In 1996, that theory was confirmed when the Galileo spacecraft reached Europa. It was the first ocean discovered on another planet. Then, in 2012   and 2016, the Hubble Space Telescope showed water plumes erupting from the warmest parts of Europa. Scientists don`t know much about the plumes. But if Europa has water and elements like carbon and hydrogen, it could mean that microbial life once   formed there or even still exists. Armed with that possibility, the European Space Agency and NASA are sending probes deep into our solar system to look specifically at Jupiter`s icy   moons. First is the Jupiter icy moons explorer or JUICE from the ESA. JUICE is traveling to the Jupiter system armed with the latest technology to take   photos, observe the magnetic field of Jupiter and take readings of what is beneath the icy crusts of Jupiter`s large moons. Later, NASA will send the Europa Clipper to fly by its namesake over 40 times to sniff its atmosphere. It will gather material from the plumes for   the first time. And that will give scientists a better idea if Europa`s oceans could support life. The missions will gather data. They will also aim to gather insights into fundamental questions about our universe. Is there life beyond Earth? What   might that look like? And what does that mean for the future of humanity? (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And for today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10 Jupiter and one of its planetary pals giving us a constellation prize. Last Wednesday, in a   phenomenon known as conjunction, Jupiter and Venus appeared to nearly kiss in the nighttime sky at their closest from a stargazer`s perspective, they   were just one degree apart. But they weren`t actually close. They were still about 400 million miles apart. That`s more than four times the   distance between us and the sun. Jupiter and Venus are the two brightest celestial bodies in the nighttime sky after the Moon, though, so this was still pretty awesome to see. We are giving a special shoutout to Crook County Middle School in Prineville, Oregon today. We see you. Thanks to everyone who subscribed and   commented on our CNN 10 YouTube Channel for a shoutout. I also want to show some love to @Mr.Gio Meany (ph), who won the #Your Word Wednesday submission.  The word I used today was gregarious, an adjective used to describe someone who is sociable. Thanks for being so gregarious with me on my Instagram,   Snapchat and TikTok. Let`s make it an awesome day now and I`ll see you tomorrow. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-03-10
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Hope you`re off to a great start to this little slice of heaven week called Friday. The weekend is upon us,   but we`re gearing up for one more epic data this week, so let`s get it done. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. But we`re down to just nine minutes and 45 seconds left, so let`s go. We start with the latest news on the Federal Reserve System, the   central banking system of the United States. The Federal Reserve, or simply the Fed, performs five functions to help the U.S. economy operate optimally   and keep the U.S. financial system stable. But one of its most important functions is analyzing financial markets in the U.S. like unemployment rates and inflation. Inflation, which is an   increase in the general price of goods and services, has been high for quite some time in America. And despite its attempts to bring it down, the Fed is seemingly having a really tough time getting it to calm down. One of the ways the Fed can   bring inflation down is to raise interest rates, making it more expensive for people and businesses to borrow money. So, it essentially deters people from spending. That, in theory, then brings the price of those goods and services back down. So, with inflation   still high, the Fed is considering raising interest rates yet again. And that would impact a lot of us, and not just in the piggy bank. Listen to this exchange between Senator Elizabeth Warren and the Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell when Warren asks Powell, what could happen if   they raise those interest rates again. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN, (D) MASSACHUSETTS:  Chair Powell, if you hit your projections, do you know how many people who are currently working, going   about their lives, will lose their jobs? JEROME POWELL, FEDERAL RESERVE CHAIRMAN:  I don`t have that number in front of me. I will say it`s not -- it`s not an intended consequence, but -- WARREN:  Well, but it is, and it`s in your report. And that would be about 2 million people who would lose their jobs. If you could speak directly to   the 2 million hardworking people who have decent jobs today, who you`re planning to get fired over the next year, what would you say to them? POWELL:  I would explain to people more broadly that, that inflation is extremely high and it`s hurting the working people of this country badly. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  All right. More now from our Chief Business Correspondent, Christine Romance, who does a great job of explaining how interest rates impact   spending and borrowing in everyday households. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  This means something for every American here, whether you`re talking about your job or you`re   talking about all these ways that higher interest rates are going to affect you. And I want to just look at the mortgage market, for example. 30-year fixed rate mortgages are indirectly tied to these Federal Reserve rate hikes, and you`ve already seen mortgage rates rising here. You`re   paying about $700 more a month in interest on a typical mortgage today, a new mortgage today than you would have if you`d got that mortgage last   year. On credit card interest rates, those are at record highs here, 19% for a typical credit card interest rate. This bears repeating, you guys. If you   are putting money on a card and not paying it off, you will spend a long time and a lot of money to get out from underneath that debt. So that`s a really important part here, too. And now in savings rates, you`re seeing a little bit of money. Eventually you might get a little bit   more by having your money in a certificate of deposit or in a savings account that has lagged, I`m going to say sadly. But eventually saving   money because of these higher rates could be a little more advantageous. It`s just not happening quite yet. But you will feel higher rates in just   about everything. And the Fed is signaling higher rates for longer here. And that`s really one of the worries here. The Fed only has that one big tool, and that is raising those interest rates. They`ve done it eight   times. How come inflation is still above 6%? How come the job market is still so strong? How come consumers are still so flush with cash and still   spending so robustly? You have underlying strength in this economy. That means the Fed has to move harder to get these interest rates higher so that   they can cool down the economy, and that could throw the economy into a recession. It`s a very, very dangerous and delicate balance that the   Federal Reserve is trying to do. And I think what we heard from the Fed Chief yesterday is that this economy has been stronger than they thought, it really has been. And we`re going to   hear a lot more information over the next week to 10 days that could, I think, really rattle markets and rattle that confidence in whether the Fed   has done the right thing at the right time here. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  OK, this weekend, most clocks in the U.S. will spring forward for the start of daylight-saving time. That means Sunday, March 12 at 02:00,   a.m. clocks in most U.S. states will suddenly jump to 3:00 a.m.. And not everyone`s a fan of time changes, especially when we lose an hour of sleep.   And there`s this push by some to end daylight saving altogether. The Sunshine Protection Act, a bill aimed at eliminating those changing clocks   in the U.S. was passed in the Senate last year by unanimous consent from both Republicans and Democrats. But then it stalled in the House of   Representatives. This topic remains controversial. Some believe making Daylight Saving Time permanent would help us avoid losing sleep and would lead to brighter   afternoons, making people more productive, rested, and happier. But some scientists suggest that bright mornings help people wake up, be more alert, and that the dark nights allow the body to trigger hormones   that help us sleep. Where do you stand? Here`s CNN meteorologist Jennifer Gray, who has more on the origins of the tradition. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JENNIFER GRAY, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  So, why don`t we change the clocks ahead 1 hour in the spring and back 1 hour in the fall? Well, it`s actually to   reduce the electricity consumption by extending the daylight hours. In the U.S. we change our clocks at 02:00 a.m. on the second Sunday in March, that begins Daylight Saving Time. That`s when we spring ahead. On   the first Sunday in November, we change our clocks at 02:00 a.m. again, that`s actually just going back to Standard Time. Believe it or not, this started with an idea from Benjamin Franklin. Franklin did write an essay suggesting that people could use less candles   if they got up early and made better use of daylight. In 1918, the Standard Time Act established time zones and daylight-saving time. But not all   states participate. To this day, most of Arizona and all of Hawaii did not change their clocks. Over 70 countries across the world observe Daylight Saving Time, with notable exceptions of China and Japan. In 2007, we actually changed the   date of when we set our clocks back an hour to the first week in November. This helped protect trigger traders by giving them an extra hour of   daylight. One of the other lines of thinking was that we would have a better voter turnout on election years. Experts say each time you change your clocks, it`s always a good idea to change those batteries in your spoke detector. And always look forward to   fall when you get that extra hour of sleep. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. What is the second highest mountain on Earth? Mount Kilimanjaro, Denali, K2 or Matterhorn? Asia`s K2 has a peak of over 28,000 feet, making it less than a thousand feet shorter than Mount Everest. And for today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, we`re heading to K2 widely considered, did you know, the most dangerous mountain in the world. But why   climb when you can float to it? Two pilots, Horacio Llorens and Tom de Dorlodot have become the first people to reach K2 by paragliding to it. They did this back in July by spending four weeks on a glacier in Kashmir, performing several test flights toward the mountain to plot their course.   Eventually, they soared all the way up the face of the mountain to nearly 25,000 feet. One of the biggest challenges, though, battling the cold weather. It was colder than a polar bear`s toenails up there hitting -Y_ 30 at times. And now on to my favorite part of the day, we have a special shout out for Thomas Street Middle School in Toronto, Canada. We see you. Keep in touch   over the weekend. I`m @Coywire on Insta, Snapchat and TikTok. We`re CNN 10 on YouTube. I hope that you and everyone watching around the world have a   wonderful weekend. Remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire we`re CNN10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2023-03-13
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Happy Monday and welcome back. If you`re still waking up, stretching and yawning because daylight savings stole an hour of   your sleep, I feel you. But I`m going to jab back at that sleepy voice in my head because somebody has to dominate this day, so why not us?  I`m Coy Wire. Thankful to be here to start this week strong with you right here on CNN 10. Parts of California faced persistent flooding over the   weekend after rounds of deadly storms. 34 of California`s 58 counties have been under a state of emergency issued by the governor`s office due to the   storms. And there`s still a threat of more severe weather this week. More than 41,000 homes and businesses across the state were without power this   weekend, and about 15 million people throughout the state were under flood watches, including parts of northwest Nevada.  Local emergency crews are having to rescue people from their homes. Roads have been washed away. Bridges have collapsed. The impacts from this week`s   storms have only compounded problems created in some areas by the severe rain and snowfall over the past two weeks.  President Biden approved a state of emergency declaration for California to help aid the millions of residents affected who are being urged to stay   clear of waterways and avoid all unnecessary travel.  Here`s CNN National Correspondent Nick Watt with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NICK WATT, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Water, everywhere, causing chaos across central California. Some 25 million are under flood warnings. The   Kern River usually runs at about six feet, it`s up over 17th. Snow is the issue up at altitude. In SoCal, they`re rushing to rebuild some sort of road for 450 households. This is their only way out. Springville`s Pleasant Valley Road now anything   bad. In my 40 years, never seen it like that, to the man who shot these images. A major artery in Oakland closed at rush hour nearby a peach coffee   warehouse roof collapsed, killing one. Around 25 times the volume of water that flows in the Mississippi is flowing through the air and this is the 10th so-called atmospheric river to   hit California this winter. Low pressure from the north meets moist air near Hawaii. They call it a Pineapple Express, sounds fun? It`s not.   Essentially a fire hose aimed at this state usually famed for its sunshine. Throw in a couple of other winter storms that dumped a couple of years` worth of snow on some upland areas. And this is the result. Today`s storm   is a warm one. So along with all this rain, some of that snow is melting. The residents of Felton flooded in January once more told to evacuate, here   and elsewhere yet more upheaval. ALISA, NEWMAN, CALIFORNIA: Now, we have to go home, pack our stuff and leave once again when we were just able to come back a couple of weeks ago. WATT: Good news, all the water this winter is significantly rolling back. The years long drought suffered in the West. Bad news yet another   atmospheric river`s forecast to hit this state early next week. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia. Which of these European cities is known as the city of light? Madrid, Paris, Rome or London? It`s been called the capital of fashion and the city of love, but Paris is also well known as the city of light.  And up next, we`re traveling to France where over 1 million people have been protesting against the government`s plans to raise the retirement age   for most workers in the country from the age of 62 to 64.  The protests have happened in major French cities and the impact has been felt across the country. It`s brought many transportation services to a   standstill. Trains shut down, flights canceled, old schools and businesses, closed, as trash piles up on streets.  Even the Eiffel Tower was closed to visitors. The French government has said that raising the retirement age is necessary to keep their pension   system viable. All French retirees receive a pension from the government on average around $1,500 a month.  But this planned reform angers workers at a time when living costs, food costs and energy bills are rising in France and elsewhere. Many of the   protesters are young people, some who haven`t even entered the workforce yet, they say, though, that for a generation already concerned about   inflation and job prospects, the government moving the finish line on retirement is depressing. We`ll hear now from CNN`s Jim Bittermann from the   streets of Paris. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JIM BITTERMANN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): French President Emmanuel Macron, like his predecessors, has run into fierce   opposition from the streets trying to raise the retirement age from 62 to 64. Strikes are growing by transportation, energy and even garbage workers.  (On camera): In a country where the average life expectancy has now increased to the age of 82 years old, it seems reasonable to expect that   with France`s pay as you go retirement system that, in fact, the retirement age would have to increase as well.  After all, as it stands now, if you retire at 62, it means collecting pension benefits for, on average, 20 years. And the money has got to come   from somewhere. (Voice-over): But it`s not that reasonable to everyone.  TAYEB KHOUIRA, SUD UNION SPOKESPERSON (through translator): We are going on an unlimited renewable strike as long as this reform has not been   withdrawn. BITTERMANN: Economists here will explain that while people are not especially happy with the present system, any further meddling with it is   viewed with suspicion and anger.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, up next, we are traveling to the Chester Zoo in the United Kingdom, where they have some of the rarest animals on the planet.   They`ve welcomed the birth of the endangered Malayan tapir, three of the threatened fossa pups, triplets they had, and the world`s rarest chimp, the   critically endangered Western chimpanzee. This zoo`s mission is to prevent animal extinction through conservation. Let`s hear more about this zoo`s 10-year plan in the next episode of CNN Series Call to Earth. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The small northern English city of Chester might seem like an unlikely place to find some of the world`s most endangered animals.   But since the 1930s, Chester Zoo has grown a reputation as one of the best in the world for conservation, with a targeted aim of preventing species   extinction.  MARK BRAYSHAW, CURATOR OF MAMMALS, CHESTER ZOO:  There`s a huge biodiversity crisis at the moment. I mean, losing species at a phenomenal   rate. And some of these species, we`re not even aware of them. We don`t know their sort of role. And so, you know, by taking species out here, now   we don`t know the long-term impact on that.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  While the gold standard for Chester Zoo is to breed species to reintroduce to their natural habitat, in many cases now the   urgent focus is on creating a safety net population in captivity. BRAYSHAW: Almost into the zoo action as an arc. And we might be in a situation where actually a species habitat is gone. They`re not going to go   back into their natural habitats. We had to sort of look at other places we could put them back into, balancing up, you know, any sort of impact that   might have. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Luckily for the preservation of some of these critically endangered species, the zoo is in the midst of a baby boom. A   birth for the world`s rarest chimpanzee, triplets for the Madagascar fossa, a greater one-horned rhino, a Malayan tapir, and finally, an addition to   the zoos family of Marsupials. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Morning Kitawa (ph). UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Increased mining and deforestation in Papua New Guinea have seen the wild population of Goodfellow`s tree-kangaroo more   than halved over the past 30 years. So the birth of a new joey in Chester provides a glimmer of hope for the future of the species. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And for today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, the family whose house was mistaken for Spiderman for decades, hundreds of letters have been   sent to 20 Ingram Street in Queens, New York, addressed to Peter Parker, aka, spiderman.  The address appeared in a comic book in 1989. And it just so happens that the real-life family who lived there is the Parker family. They thought   they were being pranked at first, receiving letters from kids all over the world, telling Spiderman how awesome he is.  Now, these superhero letters are now on display at the City Reliquary Museum in New York City, showing hope, optimism and belief in a better   tomorrow. Now, your letters make us feel super. Thanks to the Senior Government class at Cascade High School in Montana, inspiring us to keep working to create a   better tomorrow.  And also Ms. Dahl`s class at North Hartford High School in Maryland, determined to make this world a bit of a better place. Now, I do have a special shout out today as well for Heathwood Hall Episcopal School in Columbia, South Carolina. You rock. It was great to   meet you, Mary. Thanks for subscribing and commenting. Your kindness on CNN 10 YouTube page. And today is National Good Samaritan Day. Let`s all show some loving kindness and make this world a better place. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-03-14
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello. It`s Wednesday, dudes. #YourWordWednesday. Follow me at Coy Wire on Insta, Snapchat and TikTok, and put your unique   vocabulary word in the comments section of my most recent posts. And we`re going to choose a winner to work into tomorrow`s show. I am so grateful to be here with you today. We begin with continued coverage of the economy. Yesterday, we brought you all of the news on   Silicon Valley Bank. When the bank was shut down by regulators this week, it became the second biggest bank failure in history in the United States. Now, here`s how it all happened. Last week, SVB announced that it suffered a $1.8 billion loss and that it urgently needed to raise more capital.   Well, the news didn`t go over well, and SVB ended up losing more than $160 billion. And as stock plummeted, the panicked customers created what`s   called a bank run, rushing to withdraw their assets. And, well, with so many people trying to take all their money out at once, the bank couldn`t   keep up with demand and regulators were forced to shut it down. Silicon Valley Bank`s customers withdrew $42 billion from their accounts in a 10-hour span on Thursday. Now, think about this. That would be like $4.2   billion per hour, or more than a million dollars per second. No wonder the bank couldn`t keep up. We`ll hear more now on what happened from CNN   Business Correspondent Christine Romans. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Don`t look now, but there`s something funny going on over there at the bank, George. I`ve never really seen one, but that`s got   all the earmarks of being a run. CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  The classic scene from, "It`s A Wonderful Life" dramatizes the panic involved in a run on the   bank. It happens when there`s a loss of confidence in the bank, and that leads to large withdrawals. The bank can`t pay everyone who wants their money all at once, and it fails. During the Great Depression, thousands of banks failed 9000, to be   exact, taking $7 billion worth of customers assets with them. That`s why the new deal included laws to ensure deposits and boost confidence in   financial institutions. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the FDIC, was created in 1933, and today covers up to $250,000 per depositor at   FDIC insured banks. Actual bank failures still happen. There were a lot during the Great Financial Crisis in 2008, but in recent years, just a handful every year,   and none in 2021 and 2022. That streak broke in March of 2023, Silicon Valley Bank, a prominent lender to tech startups, collapsed after questions   about its liquidity started piling up. That caused customers to start withdrawing their money, essentially sparking a run on the bank. When SVB   couldn`t raise enough capital to cover customer demand, regulators stepped in and took control of the bank. The danger with a bank run is that panic can spread to other banks. It`s called contagion. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Day one, there were two people, and then four, and then 16. In three months, it`s a billion. That`s where we`re headed. ROMANS:  So what starts as a problem at a single bank can quickly turn into a crisis for the entire system. That`s what happened during the Great   Financial Crisis in 2008. And it`s why the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank, the second largest U.S. bank failure of all time, has Wall Street on edge. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. In 1867, the U.S. bought what 600,000 square mile territory for less than two cents per acre? Louisiana, Alaska, Florida or Texas? Now the largest state in the U.S., Alaska is bigger than Texas, California, and Montana combined. And up next, we`re headed to Alaska where this week the Biden administration approved a controversial oil drilling project called the   ConocoPhillips Willow Project. The move is making some climate advocates angry and could set the stage for a court challenge in the future. The project is a decades long oil drilling   venture in the National Petroleum Reserve on the north shore of Alaska, which is owned by the federal government. The planned site holds up to 600 million barrels of oil. The approval is considered a victory for Alaska`s government and a coalition of native   tribes who feel the drilling venture is a much-needed new source of revenue and jobs for this remote region. But climate groups and some Alaska natives argue that the project will hurt the country`s climate goals and pose health and environmental risks. We`ll   hear now from CNN National Correspondent Rene Marsh who has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  At this point, the only way that this project can be stopped is if -- RENE MARSH, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  On TikTok and Instagram calls for President Biden to stop Willow Project. An urgent call that`s gone viral to   block a controversial Alaska oil drilling project. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Please help stop Willow. MARSH:  The videos ranking up tens of millions of views, spurring more a million letters to the White House and more than 3 million signatures to a   change.org petition. ELISE JOSHI, GENZ FOR CHANGE:  In order to stop Willow, people need to know about Willow. MARSH:  20-year-old Elise Joshi, a senior at the University of California, Berkeley, is one of the social media activists. JOSHI:  -- will not just impact Alaska, it will not just impact this country, it will impact the world. But the amount of carbon emissions that   it will emit, we will see an increase in frequency and intensity of natural disasters. MARSH:  ConocoPhillips Willow Project would be located in northwest Alaska on the National Petroleum Reserve, federal land roughly the size of   Indiana. The project would tap as much as 600 million barrels of oil, but it would take years for it to make it to market. Its messy politics for   President Biden, pitting his climate promises against the desire to produce energy at home and lower gas prices. Nagruk Harcharek`s family has also lived in the region for generations. He supports the project. His nonprofit represents two dozen native   communities, corporations and local governments who say the project would be an economic boon and help the U.S. wean off of foreign oil. NAGRUK HARCHAREK, THE VOICE OF THE ARCTIC INUPIAT:  The economics that a project like this would bring into the region, mainly to the North Slope   borough in the form of taxes, to help provide and maintain first world conditions. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Let`s head on over to North Carolina, where there is some heated competition at the halftime of a Tar Heels basketball game. A race called   Diapers to Dorms Dash. Adorable babies crawling towards their parents, waiting at the finish line for a chance at winning $529 for their education   fund. Bring it on, baby. Our Jeanne Moos is on the call. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT:  It was a baby race that had pulses racing. Parents were psyched. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Hi Lyla. MOOS:  Babies were wide eyed. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Crawl babies, crawl. MOOS:  And thereof, it was half time at a University of North Carolina basketball game. Lyla instantly took the lead. Continued towards someone   else`s mom instead of her dad. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  But she`s going to another parent. Lyla`s going to a different house. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Lyla was so, so stinking cute. MOOS:  And that`s coming from one of Lyla`s rivals. Lyla made it just inches from the finish but stopped dead despite pleas from the announcer. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Lyla, please. Please, just touch it. MOOS:  Another contestant made his move to pass. Lyla then plopped down, even bopped a bit, and finally turned the wrong way. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  No, no, no. MOOS:  Wonder some considered this the most intense baby race ever. And then Lyla did the unthinkable. And just as she reversed course, a dark   horse entered the fray. (On camera): Is she a fast crawler? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Well, funny enough is she only started crawling maybe a week, week and a half before that baby race. MOOS:  Nine-month-old Brexley Dennick`s (ph) strategy was to start slow. So slow, her dad had to throw his watch down the court and hope she`d follow.   It worked. And once Brexley got going -- UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  She doesn`t give up, which is great, and I hope she can keep doing that for the rest of her life. MOOS:  To lure her over the finish, Brexley`s mom did what most of the other parents tried waving the phone. All that crawling earned the winner a $529 check for her future education fund. But this was its an education on how we`re all doomed to end up on   our knees looking for our phones for the rest of our lives. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, now, if those babies refuse a nap after that, are they resisting arrest? And remember to submit your vocab words for   #YourWordWednesday. Last week`s word was gregarious, meaning sociable. Now to my favorite part of the day for today`s special shout out, we are traveling all the way to Africa showing some love to West Nairobi School in   Nairobi, Kenya. We see you and we hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one. We are so grateful to be able to learn with so many people from all over the world. Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube page   to submit to your school for a shout out. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-03-15
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello. It`s Wednesday, dudes. #YourWordWednesday. Follow me at Coy Wire on Insta, Snapchat and TikTok, and put your unique   vocabulary word in the comments section of my most recent posts. And we`re going to choose a winner to work into tomorrow`s show. I am so grateful to be here with you today. We begin with continued coverage of the economy. Yesterday, we brought you all of the news on   Silicon Valley Bank. When the bank was shut down by regulators this week, it became the second biggest bank failure in history in the United States. Now, here`s how it all happened. Last week, SVB announced that it suffered a $1.8 billion loss and that it urgently needed to raise more capital.   Well, the news didn`t go over well, and SVB ended up losing more than $160 billion. And as stock plummeted, the panicked customers created what`s   called a bank run, rushing to withdraw their assets. And, well, with so many people trying to take all their money out at once, the bank couldn`t   keep up with demand and regulators were forced to shut it down. Silicon Valley Bank`s customers withdrew $42 billion from their accounts in a 10-hour span on Thursday. Now, think about this. That would be like $4.2   billion per hour, or more than a million dollars per second. No wonder the bank couldn`t keep up. We`ll hear more now on what happened from CNN   Business Correspondent Christine Romans. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Don`t look now, but there`s something funny going on over there at the bank, George. I`ve never really seen one, but that`s got   all the earmarks of being a run. CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  The classic scene from, "It`s A Wonderful Life" dramatizes the panic involved in a run on the   bank. It happens when there`s a loss of confidence in the bank, and that leads to large withdrawals. The bank can`t pay everyone who wants their money all at once, and it fails. During the Great Depression, thousands of banks failed 9000, to be   exact, taking $7 billion worth of customers assets with them. That`s why the new deal included laws to ensure deposits and boost confidence in   financial institutions. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the FDIC, was created in 1933, and today covers up to $250,000 per depositor at   FDIC insured banks. Actual bank failures still happen. There were a lot during the Great Financial Crisis in 2008, but in recent years, just a handful every year,   and none in 2021 and 2022. That streak broke in March of 2023, Silicon Valley Bank, a prominent lender to tech startups, collapsed after questions   about its liquidity started piling up. That caused customers to start withdrawing their money, essentially sparking a run on the bank. When SVB   couldn`t raise enough capital to cover customer demand, regulators stepped in and took control of the bank. The danger with a bank run is that panic can spread to other banks. It`s called contagion. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Day one, there were two people, and then four, and then 16. In three months, it`s a billion. That`s where we`re headed. ROMANS:  So what starts as a problem at a single bank can quickly turn into a crisis for the entire system. That`s what happened during the Great   Financial Crisis in 2008. And it`s why the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank, the second largest U.S. bank failure of all time, has Wall Street on edge. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. In 1867, the U.S. bought what 600,000 square mile territory for less than two cents per acre? Louisiana, Alaska, Florida or Texas? Now the largest state in the U.S., Alaska is bigger than Texas, California, and Montana combined. And up next, we`re headed to Alaska where this week the Biden administration approved a controversial oil drilling project called the   ConocoPhillips Willow Project. The move is making some climate advocates angry and could set the stage for a court challenge in the future. The project is a decades long oil drilling   venture in the National Petroleum Reserve on the north shore of Alaska, which is owned by the federal government. The planned site holds up to 600 million barrels of oil. The approval is considered a victory for Alaska`s government and a coalition of native   tribes who feel the drilling venture is a much-needed new source of revenue and jobs for this remote region. But climate groups and some Alaska natives argue that the project will hurt the country`s climate goals and pose health and environmental risks. We`ll   hear now from CNN National Correspondent Rene Marsh who has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  At this point, the only way that this project can be stopped is if -- RENE MARSH, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  On TikTok and Instagram calls for President Biden to stop Willow Project. An urgent call that`s gone viral to   block a controversial Alaska oil drilling project. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Please help stop Willow. MARSH:  The videos ranking up tens of millions of views, spurring more a million letters to the White House and more than 3 million signatures to a   change.org petition. ELISE JOSHI, GENZ FOR CHANGE:  In order to stop Willow, people need to know about Willow. MARSH:  20-year-old Elise Joshi, a senior at the University of California, Berkeley, is one of the social media activists. JOSHI:  -- will not just impact Alaska, it will not just impact this country, it will impact the world. But the amount of carbon emissions that   it will emit, we will see an increase in frequency and intensity of natural disasters. MARSH:  ConocoPhillips Willow Project would be located in northwest Alaska on the National Petroleum Reserve, federal land roughly the size of   Indiana. The project would tap as much as 600 million barrels of oil, but it would take years for it to make it to market. Its messy politics for   President Biden, pitting his climate promises against the desire to produce energy at home and lower gas prices. Nagruk Harcharek`s family has also lived in the region for generations. He supports the project. His nonprofit represents two dozen native   communities, corporations and local governments who say the project would be an economic boon and help the U.S. wean off of foreign oil. NAGRUK HARCHAREK, THE VOICE OF THE ARCTIC INUPIAT:  The economics that a project like this would bring into the region, mainly to the North Slope   borough in the form of taxes, to help provide and maintain first world conditions. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Let`s head on over to North Carolina, where there is some heated competition at the halftime of a Tar Heels basketball game. A race called   Diapers to Dorms Dash. Adorable babies crawling towards their parents, waiting at the finish line for a chance at winning $529 for their education   fund. Bring it on, baby. Our Jeanne Moos is on the call. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT:  It was a baby race that had pulses racing. Parents were psyched. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Hi Lyla. MOOS:  Babies were wide eyed. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Crawl babies, crawl. MOOS:  And thereof, it was half time at a University of North Carolina basketball game. Lyla instantly took the lead. Continued towards someone   else`s mom instead of her dad. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  But she`s going to another parent. Lyla`s going to a different house. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Lyla was so, so stinking cute. MOOS:  And that`s coming from one of Lyla`s rivals. Lyla made it just inches from the finish but stopped dead despite pleas from the announcer. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Lyla, please. Please, just touch it. MOOS:  Another contestant made his move to pass. Lyla then plopped down, even bopped a bit, and finally turned the wrong way. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  No, no, no. MOOS:  Wonder some considered this the most intense baby race ever. And then Lyla did the unthinkable. And just as she reversed course, a dark   horse entered the fray. (On camera): Is she a fast crawler? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Well, funny enough is she only started crawling maybe a week, week and a half before that baby race. MOOS:  Nine-month-old Brexley Dennick`s (ph) strategy was to start slow. So slow, her dad had to throw his watch down the court and hope she`d follow.   It worked. And once Brexley got going -- UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  She doesn`t give up, which is great, and I hope she can keep doing that for the rest of her life. MOOS:  To lure her over the finish, Brexley`s mom did what most of the other parents tried waving the phone. All that crawling earned the winner a $529 check for her future education fund. But this was its an education on how we`re all doomed to end up on   our knees looking for our phones for the rest of our lives. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, now, if those babies refuse a nap after that, are they resisting arrest? And remember to submit your vocab words for   #YourWordWednesday. Last week`s word was gregarious, meaning sociable. Now to my favorite part of the day for today`s special shout out, we are traveling all the way to Africa showing some love to West Nairobi School in   Nairobi, Kenya. We see you and we hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one. We are so grateful to be able to learn with so many people from all over the world. Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube page   to submit to your school for a shout out. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END  

Date: 2023-03-16
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. It`s Thursday, so happy Friday Eve. I`m Coy Wire, and I`m giving a salute to all the teachers out there   today. Like Mr. Sliz (ph) at Pine Valley Central School in South Dayton, New York, who I met recently. All of you, keep uplifting guiding and   inspiring, helping us make sense of this world in which we live.  Students, go on and give your teachers some heart hands today and let them know you appreciate them for being the best that they can be for you. Now, we start today with news from the Black Sea, where a Russian fighter jet forced down a U.S. Air Force drone this week after damaging the   propeller. The U.S. drone and two Russian aircraft were flying over the Black Sea when one of the Russian jets intentionally flew in front of and   dumped fuel on the unmanned American drone several times. According to U.S. officials, the Russian aircraft then hit the propeller of the drone, prompting U.S. forces to bring the drone down to the water. The incident marks the first time Russian and U.S. military aircraft have come into direct physical contact since Russia launched its invasion of   Ukraine just over a year ago. And the incident this week is likely to increase tensions between the two nations. The U.S. called Russia`s actions   reckless, environmentally unsound, and unprofessional. But the Russian Ministry of Defense denies that the Russian jet made contact with the drone   at all. This is a potentially dangerous escalation at a critical time in the current conflict between Russia and Ukraine. We`ll hear now from CNN   Pentagon Correspondent Oren Lieberman, who has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT:  All of this plays out early Tuesday morning in international airspace over the Black Sea when the U.S.   says its MQ-9 Reaper drone was intercepted by two Russian Sukhoi Su-27 fighter jets. That part is not that uncommon, and these sorts of intercepts   have happened in the past. What is extremely rare is what happened as this played out. Over the course of 30 to 40 minutes. The Russian fighter jets,   according to the Pentagon, repeatedly flew around and in front of the U.S. drone, dumped jet fuel in front of it, and even collided with it, damaging   the propeller and forcing the U.S. to take down its own drone in international waters in the Black Sea. Now, the National Security Council`s Coordinator for Strategic communications, John Kirby, told CNN that the U.S. took steps to protect   its equities, but it`s unclear exactly what that is, whether that was some sort of self-destruct or some other step to protect it.  Now, the drone has not been recovered, partially because at least there is no U.S. naval asset in the Black Sea to have carried out such a recovery.   So the U.S. took some step to protect its own equities. This MQ-9 Reaper drone. But again, unclear what that is. Much of the response so far has   been in the diplomatic lane. The U.S. summoning the Russian Ambassador to the U.S. and carrying out at least a 30 minutes conversation at the State   Department.  Russia giving an entirely different version of events, saying there was no collision, there was no Russian jets firing at that U.S. drone, but Russia   saying it does not want confrontations. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia.  Which of these U.S. states is nicknamed the Gem State? Oregon, Idaho, Arkansas, or Delaware? Idaho. The Gem State is the 14th largest, and it`s bordered by Montana, Wyoming, Utah, Nevada, Washington and Oregon. We`ll travel to Oregon now where some residents are pushing to move the state line so that they can join their neighboring state of Idaho. The   movement known as Move Oregon`s Border for a Greater Idaho is looking to redraw the border between Oregon and Idaho so that about 20 rural   conservative Oregon counties can instead become part of Idaho. These counties say that they want to do this because they want a Republican led government. Oregon`s state government is currently controlled by   Democrats, while Idaho`s state government is controlled by Republicans.  Critics of the idea have called the plan bad for America and have stated that the U.S. political system works best when there`s a balance of   different viewpoints. But members of the group pushing for change have said rural Oregon is politically outnumbered in its state and that their voices   have been ignored for years.  The group believes their livelihoods, industries and freedoms are hurt by the policies of a government that doesn`t share their values. Still, those   opposed to the idea believe dividing America into politically like-minded people is the opposite of a healthy country.  We`ll hear now from CNN National Correspondent Kyung Lah looking at both sides of this debate. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SANDIE GILSON, GREATER IDAHO MOVEMENT:  It`s extremely frustrating. The rules and regulations that they`re making that make sense in the city don`t   make sense out here. KYUNG LAH, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Out here in eastern Oregon, the expansive rural region and Sandie Gilson`s home where we`re walking is   a world away from the urban cities of the state. (On camera):  Do you have anything in common with Portland? GILSON:  Oh, sure, we`re all people.  LAH (voice-over):  But she says that`s about it. And the signs dotting the east tell you what many people here want known as the Greater Idaho   Movement. Redraw the state line so liberal Portland and the other democratic cities are Oregon. And eastern Oregon overwhelmingly Republican joins largely   conservative Idaho. Nearly all of Oregon`s 17 eastern county governments have approved plans to leave and form a larger Idaho resembling the logo on   Sandie Gilson`s hat.  (On camera): Is this about politics or differences? GILSON:  Both. We are very different people. I don`t believe that the Oregon government as a whole and the supermajority that has been in power   there for many decades is listening to eastern Oregon at all.  BARBARA EHARDT, IDAHO STATE HOUSE: It just overwhelmingly hit me this makes sense. LAH:  So much so that Idaho State Representative Barbara Ehardt, a Republican, co-sponsored a bill to begin dialogue with Oregon. EHARDT:  This is where all the big decisions are made for the Idaho legislature. LAH:  The bill passed the Idaho House and is now before the Senate. Idaho`s government is officially on a path to redraw its state line for the first   time since 1864. EHARDT:  The country is so torn apart right now. LAH:  By ideology? EHARDT:  Yes. LAH:  Is this your vision of peace? EHARDT:  It is one of the solutions, yes. ILANA RUBEL, IDAHO STATE HOUSE:  Are we going to carve Georgia out of Atlanta? Are we going to carve Austin out of Texas? Are we going to slice   Michigan`s? It`s a ridiculous road to start to go down.  LAH:  State Representative Ilana Rubel knows all about being a political minority. She`s a Democrat in Ruby Ridge, Idaho and voted against the state   bill. (On camera):  Are you surprised that it has already gotten this far?  RUBEL:  I`m saddened, but I`m not surprised. We are in a time, I think, of unprecedented partisanship and hostility. GILSON:  Portland`s changed. Salem`s changed. Eugene has changed. LAH:  What do you say when the people of those cities say that they`re changing with the times and that`s the America of today. GILSON:  They say it`s more progressive to have government tell you what to do. But the people here haven`t changed. LAH:  If these two states do agree to redraw the state lines, then Congress has to get involved and Congress has to approve this entire measure. But   how would this work if they do, do all of this? This is Oregon on that side of the river, that is Idaho. Oregon, where I am standing, would become Idaho. Just like 250 miles to my north, to the west   and to the south. It would form one of the largest states in the entire country, a new Idaho. Organizers say it would be approximately the size of   Montana. (END VIDEOTAPE)  WIRE:  I love shoes. So if you`re a sneakerhead like I am, we might be soul mates.  And you`re going to love today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, an exorbitant price tag for some shoes. A pair of Air Jordan 13s are expected   to shatter auction records with a high estimate of $4 million.  Worn by the legend Michael Jordan himself in the 1998 NBA Finals, the last championship series, by the way, he won with the Chicago Bulls. The current   record is another pair of Jordan`s game worn shoes which went for 1.47 million 2 years ago.  Open bidding is set to take place online starting April 3. Shulala weh weh. Those are sweet. All right. So many great. Your word Wednesday submissions   yesterday on my @coywire social accounts. Thanks to today`s winner @Brady E. Ellison (ph) for exorbitant. Did you hear it? It`s an adjective meaning   unreasonably high when talking about a price or amount charged. Our special shout out today is going to Redwood Collegiate Academy in Ukiah, California. Big love for the third biggest state in America. Do you remember which state is the largest in the country? It was on yesterday`s show. I`ll ask   somebody. See you tomorrow, lovely people. It`ll be Friday and we can`t wait.  I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-03-17
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, lovely people. It`s Friday, March 17, St. Patrick`s Day. So happy St. Patrick`s Day, y`all. The weekend is upon us,   and we have had an awesome week. So let`s lock in and finish this week strong. We start with a trip to Japan today, where the number of births   last year dropped to a record low.  This population decline is a trend for the island nation that experts are worried about. Deaths have outpaced births for more than a decade, so Japan   now has a huge elderly population and a shrinking workforce. There`s no population to fund pensions and health care as demand from the aging population rises, Japan`s Prime Minister, Fumio Kishida, warned   citizens that the country is on the brink of not being able to maintain social functions.  A government agency was even set up to focus on this issue. One reason for the population loss is Japan`s high cost of living. There is also limited   space in the cities and a lack of childcare support, which makes it challenging to raise children in Japan.  Let`s learn more and head to one rural town where more than half of the village is over the age of 65. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Just after sunrise in the Japanese countryside, no alarm clock needed. The   Yokobori family feeds their flock of chickens, feeding themselves freshly laid eggs.  French toast for breakfast, bread baked on a wood burning stove. Wood they chopped from cedar forests surrounding their home. Ten years ago, Miho was   an office worker in Tokyo. Today, she`s a homemaker. Former graphic designer Hirohito (ph) now a woodworker. The couple runs a small bed and   breakfast. For them, city life lost its luster in 2011. A new life in the mountains of Nara Prefecture. Their home miles from the nearest train   station. Around here, you need a car to get around. (On camera):  It`s so beautiful. But you`re so far away from all of the 24/7 convenience of Japanese city life. (Voice-over):  They move to Kawakami Village, a tiny township tucked way on windy roads, the trees taller than most buildings. When the young couple   got to know their neighbors, they got quite a shock. (On camera):  Did you guys know before moving out here that the average age was as old as it is? MIHO YOKOBORI, KAWAKAMI VILLAGE RESIDENT:  No. RIPLEY:  You didn`t know? (Voice-over):  The mayor tells me more than half the village is over 65.  TADAAKI KURIYAMA, KAWAKAMI VILLAGE MAYOR (through translator):  40 years ago, the population was around 6000. Today it`s 1156. RIPLEY (voice-over):  The village population plunging faster than anywhere else in Japan. Some say it`s in danger of disappearing for good as people   pass away, abandoned homes sit empty. Others sit underwater. Casualties of a dam and reservoir finished a decade ago. (On camera):  When you see the prediction of, you know, under 300 people living here 20 years from now, how do you -- what do you do as mayor to try   to stop that from happening?  KURIYAMA:  I`m not optimistic, but I don`t think it will be that bad. I believe that people should live in such a nice place. RIPLEY:  The population data is dire, and not just in Kawakami Village. Nearly every local government in Japan predicts a lower population and   higher average age by 2045. Entire villages on the verge of extinction. Japanese society is shrinking and aging so fast its future survival is at   stake. I`m going to one of the few places in Japan with population growth. You can probably guess where it is. (On camera):  For decades, Japanese young people have been fleeing their small rural towns, lured by the draw of big cities like Tokyo and Osaka,   all of them connected by the bullet train. (Voice-over):  But there`s no magic bullet for Japan`s population problems. Even in Tokyo, the towers are high. Birth rates hit record lows. Japan`s   population plummeting for more than five years. If the trend continues, experts fear it will fall past the point of no return.  (On camera):  Why are so few women in Japan having children? YUKA OKADA, DOCTOR (through translation):  People usually, for now, don`t have the money. RIPLEY:  Is life here in Tokyo too busy for a lot of people to find a partner? OKADA:  Working not in the office, at home, so it`s very difficult to meet other people. RIPLEY:  It sounds like there`s a lot of lonely people in this big, massive city. OKADA:  Yeah, so -- I think so, too. RIPLEY:  New parents in Japan already get a baby bonus thousands of dollars to cover medical costs.  For singles, a state sponsored dating service   powered by artificial intelligence.  So far, boosting Japan`s birth rate has been a losing battle. The Yoko Boris (ph) are doing their part. (On camera):  So when he was born, he was the first child in this village in how many years? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  25 years. RIPLEY:  25 years. (On camera):  Also a big challenge raising a child in the mountains, no neighborhood kids to play with. Just six children in his kindergarten class   30 minutes away. The nearest high school more than 2 hours away. MIHO YOKOBORI, KAWAKAMI VILLAGE RESIDENT:  We`ll do the best we can, but the rest is up to Kintaro (ph). RIPLEY:  Both say it`s OK if their son decides to leave someday. Population data does show more young people moving to the countryside, lured by the   low cost of living, clean air, and low stress lifestyle.  The key question, is Japan doing enough to pull up its plunging population before it`s too late? (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia. What planet as closest to Earth when it passes by? Mercury, Venus, Mars or Jupiter? It might not be the closest on average, but Venus`s orbit brings it closer to Earth than any other planet. Up next, an out of this world story where, for the first time, scientists discovered evidence of recent volcanic activity on Venus. A closer look at   archival radar images taken by NASA`s Magellan spacecraft in the early 1990s revealed the new evidence on the surface of the planet.  But the new analysis shows that a region near Venus` equator grew over an 8th month span. And experts say this is geological evidence of volcanic   activity. The Magellan mission ended in 1994. But NASA has new missions to Venus planned within a decade. Scientists are excited about what else they   might discover about this enigmatic, rocky, potentially lava flowing planet. For today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, we`re soaring to new heights.  Luke Czepiela attempting a world record, becoming the first to land a plane on top of Dubai`s famed Burj Al-Arab hotel. It`s actually a helipad, just   88 feet long, but Luke nails it. This is 56 stories above the ground. The red bull air race champ makes it look easy. But he`s preparing since 2021,   completing over 650 flight test landings on ground level.  So greatness does not come easy. The habits you`re creating right now are creating the future you. This reminds me of a fable I heard. The great   artist Picasso was walking down the street and he heard a young person yelling, "Picasso, Picasso, you`re my favorite artist. Can you can you sign   this napkin for me?" Picasso go makes a breathtaking piece of art. "Picasso, this is so beautiful. It only took you 5 seconds to do this." "My   child," Picasso said, "It took me 20 years to be able to do this for you in 5 seconds." Master your craft, practice and outwork everyone every single   day. Shout out to Carlson High School in Gibraltar, Michigan. Today from me and my CNN team, have a wonderful weekend, everyone. I`m Coy Wire and it`s been   a blessing to spend this week with. END 

Date: 2023-03-20
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. I`m Coy Wire. Hope you had a wonderful weekend. I am grateful to be right here with you to help   jumpstart your week for the best ten minutes in news right here on CNN 10. Let`s start today with an update on Russia`s invasion of Ukraine.  The International Criminal Court issued a war crimes arrest warrant for Russian President Vladimir Putin on Friday. This for an alleged scheme to   deport thousands of Ukrainian children to Russia. Now, Russia called the actions outrageous and unacceptable and said the court`s decisions are null   and void in their country.  Like the U.S., China and other nations, Russia isn`t a member of the court, so they don`t recognize its jurisdiction. So the chances of Putin actually   being in a courtroom over this seem slim to none. Putin and any other official would have to be arrested outside of Russia or handed over.  And if you think justice in general moves slowly, experts say international justice barely moves at all. But anyone accused of a crime in the   jurisdiction of the court can be tried, even presidents. The court tries people, not countries, and focuses on those who hold the most   responsibility.  That being said, this court is meant as a, "last resort," and it`s not meant to replace any country`s justice system. The White House has said   that it welcomed accountability for perpetrators of war crimes, but stopped short of a full endorsement. And the U.S. also said they will continue to   help Ukraine document Moscow`s misdeeds.  Ten-second Trivia. Which of these terms refers to the red, green, and brown marine algae growing along seashores? Coral, Anemones, Seaweed, or Seagrass? Normally anchored to the sea floor seaweed can also be found floating on the ocean surface.  There`s been a growing threat to tourism in the Caribbean in recent years. And now parts of Florida could be next. Seaweed is overwhelming normally   beautiful beaches. A 5000 miles wide mass of seaweed is headed for Florida right now. That`s twice as wide as the entire U.S. And it can smell like   rotten eggs or sulfur when it washes ashore. For years, it`s been wreaking havoc in the Caribbean and on some beaches around Cancun in Mexico. And   it`s getting worse.  Experts say one potential cause is agricultural runoff. Fertilizers, for example, for crops that wash into rivers and then eventually out to sea.   Workers at some resorts are having to fill up dump trucks every day and haul mounds of the algae away. But it`s relentless frustrating tourists in   places where tourism is the heartbeat of the economy. Here`s more now from our friend Leyla Santiago, our correspondent who`s on the story in Florida.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JOE KAPLAN, KEY WEST RESIDENT:  It`s thick in the summertime, builds up and smells terrible.  LEYLA SANTIAGO, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Joe Kaplan captured these images about a week ago. Massive amounts of seaweed washing up at Smathers Beach, a   beach he knows well because he walks it several times a week.  KAPLAN:  I was shocked when I saw it that day where it wasn`t even spring yet. It`s still winter, which is very unusual.  CHUANMIN HU, USF COLLEGE OF MARINE SCIENCE:  And this is about a 5000 miles long.  SANTIAGO:  Professor Chuanmin, who is one of the leading experts on what many have referred to as a massive blob of seaweed heading to Florida`s   coast. (On camera):  Fair to call it a blob?  HU:  No. SANTIAGO:  No, we can`t call it a blob, OK. HU:  I would never call that a blob. OK. SANTIAGO:  OK, why?  HU:  Because it`s not.  SANTIAGO:  Satellite images, he says, show it`s not one massive body of seaweed, rather a bunch of patchy clumps traveling from west Africa. It`s   called the Atlantic Sargassum Belt and is considered a natural phenomenon. Right now, it`s twice the width of the U.S. carrying 6 million tons of   seaweed and headed to the east coast.  HU:  In June of this year, it may turn into 20 million tons.  SANTIAGO:  So let me get this straight, this, what we`re seeing the last month is 6 million tons and it`s going to get bigger? HU:  Yes. There`s no way to stop that. This is nature, just like no one can stop a hurricane.  SANTIAGO:  Should we be worried about that?  HU:  Nope.  SANTIAGO:  Why?  HU:  Reason is sargassum is not toxic. SANTIAGO:  But it smells pretty bad and it`s a nuisance for those trying to keep beaches clean to attract tourists. Just a few years ago, here`s what   it looked like in Mexico, officials in Monroe county, which includes the Florida Keys, have set aside more than $200,000 to clean and remove   sargassum from its beaches.  CAPTAIN DAN MATTHEWS, MISS CHIEF FISHING CHARTER:  Seaweed is a mixed blessing. We need it. Seaweed is a nursery for all these large pelagic   fish. The negative side to that seaweed is if it comes in the concentrations that are believed, we`re going to see our fishing grounds   are going to be completely covered with it. There`s almost no point to fishing because we`re going to be spending the entire day cleaning weed off   our lines.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Did you know that as of last summer, half of young adults ages 18 to 29 have roommates that are named mom and dad? Millions of young adults are   living with their parents, and that`s the most since the great depression. Some choose to live with their parents to save money and build for their   futures. But many don`t have a choice. The cost of housing is rising. Student loan debt is piling. So here`s CNN`s Correspondent Gabe Cohen who`s   been speaking to people across the country who are living at home after college.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) GRACE LEMIRE, LIVES WITH PARENTS:  Yeah, it feels like home.  GABE COHEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Grace Lemire shows us her Massachusetts home.  LEMIRE:  So this is my childhood bedroom. COHEN:  Well, her parents` home. LEMIRE:  This is my mom`s office.  COHEN:  The 24-year-old moved back after college and hasn`t left, even though she`s now making close to six figures running her own content   marketing business.  LEMIRE:  I mean, it`s been huge. I`ve been able to completely save an emergency fund. I have been able to put a lot of money onto my student   loans. I have a bigger down payment for a future home. Those are things that are important to me and make living at home make more sense for me.  COHEN:  She posts about it on TikTok. LEMIRE:  But have you seen the rent prices out there?  COHEN:  And she`s not alone.  JORDAN HOWLETT, LIVES WITH PARENTS:  Living by yourself is almost impossible.  COHEN:  Millions of young adults moved home during the pandemic, and many haven`t left.  EMILY STONE, LIVES WITH PARENTS:  It`s something that I used to be almost like, embarrassed or ashamed of, but not anymore.  COHEN:  As of last summer, 50% of adults 18 to 29 years old were living with their parents, according to Pew, down just slightly from 52% at the   peak of the pandemic, the most since the Great Depression.  LEMIRE:  I would say most of my friends are actually living at home with their parents.  COHEN:  Housing costs are a key reason. The average rent nationwide, nearly $2,000 is 26% higher than at the start of COVID and only rising amid this   high inflation.  CHRISTINE BRUNIK, LIVES WITH PARENTS:  I can`t be financially stable if I want to go out and live on my own.  COHEN:  23-year-old Christine Brunilk has lived with her parents in a Minnesota suburb since finishing college. Renting her own place, she says,   could cost half her marketing salary.  BRUNIK:  I feel kind of, like in a stagnant position.  COHEN (on camera):  What`s your plan as of now? BRUNIK:  I`m hoping to move out in August, but again, that depends if I find roommates. COHEN:  Then there`s student loan debt.  JON WILLIAMS, LIVES WITH PARENTS:  The goal is to just clear that out as quickly as I can.  COHEN:  26-year-old Jon Williams, a pharmacist in Michigan, moved into his parents basement after finishing grad school with $180,000 of student debt,   he says.  WILLIAMS:  It has been a very minimalist lifestyle. I`ve saved over 80% of my net income.  COHEN:  When do you think you`ll be able to clear your student debt?  WILLIAMS:  Probably late fall. I`m about three quarters of the way through it right now.  COHEN:  Are you getting antsy?  WILLIAMS:  I am getting slightly antsy. I do feel like 2023 would probably be a good year for me to move out.  COHEN:  Many Americans don`t like this trend, 36% say that more young adults living with parents is bad for society, while 6% say it`s good.   According to Pew Research. LEMIRE:  I`ve been called a fraud and a freeloader.  COHEN:  Grace`s mom had a different take.  NANCY LEMIRE, GRACE`S MOTHER:  If she`s in a better position, then that gives us peace of mind. And when we get older, if we need help, she`ll be   in a better position to help us, right?  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Up next, let`s hang 10 for CNN 10`s 10 out of 10 story. Australian surf coach Blake Johnston broke the world record for longest surf session.   He did it on Friday, surfing 40 straight hours in Sydney, Australia, breaking the previous record by about 10 hours. Stung by jellyfish thinking   about potential shark attacks, he rode more than 600 waves for nearly two whole days. Think about how scary it must have been at nighttime.  Blake did this to raise money for mental health initiatives, and he raised hundreds of thousands of dollars. Where there`s a will, there`s a wave.   Good vibes on the good tides.  My team and I love learning about current events with you. And we also love giving a special shout out. Gold Lumberjacks (ph) Hume Lake Charter School   in Sequoia National Park, California. Rise up. Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube Channel. Hang loose today, y`all. And I   hope that happiness comes in waves.  I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-03-21
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello everyone. Terrific Tuesday to you. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, and you are awesome. We have a great show for you   today, so let`s get to it. We`re going to begin with the latest news on the protests in Israel. For the past 11 weeks on Saturday nights, protesters   have taken to the streets in Israel to call for a government overhaul. Roughly half a million Israelis each week voicing their opposition to the   government. That`s 5% of the total population.  Protesters are angry at the government`s plans to overhaul the country`s judicial system, which would give Israeli`s parliament the power to   overrule Supreme Court decisions. Critics accuse Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of pushing the legislation in order to get out of a corruption   trial that he is currently facing.  But Netanyahu denies that, saying that the trials are collapsing on their own and that the government overhaul is necessary. On Monday, though,   Netanyahu announced a key change to part of his plans due to the massive public protests and international pressure.  The concession would give Israeli governments less power to select new judges, but still more power than it has now. About 66% of Israelis believe   the Supreme Court should have the power to strike down laws incompatible with Israeli`s basic laws. And about the same proportion, 63% say they   support the current system of nominating judges. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ELLIOTT GOTKINE, JOURNALIST:  As surely as night follows day, Saturday night these past eleven weeks in Israel has meant mass demonstrations   against the government`s judicial overhaul. Protesters are concerned it will remove pretty much all checks and balances on the government, allowing   it to appoint allies as top judges and removing the Supreme Court`s ability to strike down laws except in very narrow circumstances.  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who leads the most right wing and religiously conservative government in Israel`s history, says his overhaul   is required to restore the balance between the government and the judiciary. But the protesters don`t buy it. They worry it will rode   Israel`s claim to be a liberal democracy and that will damage the economy and infringe upon their freedoms of expression, worship, and the right to   demonstrate.  President Isaac Herzog`s attempts to broker compromise unveiled earlier this week were rejected by the government. And though his warnings of civil   war seem far-fetched for now, so long as the overhaul continues its passage through parliament, the protest will continue.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Now for another installment of our CNN series, Call to Earth. We`re traveling to Sydney, Australia, where one organization called Living   Seawalls is changing the way we think about building infrastructure in the ocean. Experts are engineering seawalls to create critical habitats that   are more hospitable to marine life that grows there. We`re going to hear from marine experts who believe it`s just as important to save the little   creatures in the ocean as it is the big ones.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DR. ARIA LEE, LIVING SEAWALL PROJECT MANAGER:  I started getting into marine science when I was in my twenty s and was doing a lot of scuba   diving. I was really interested in the tiny critters that were living in the marine environment. There`s a lot of attention with biodiversity and   conservation around the large fish like the sharks and the whales. But you have to remember that these organisms rely on smaller organisms in order to   survive. We really need to start at the bottom and build up a really strong base on which to build up this food web. My name is Dr. Aria Lee and I`m the   project manager for Living Seawall.  The problem in urbanized areas such as Sydney Harbor is that so much of the shoreline has been built over with artificial structures. Over 50% of the   shoreline in Sydney Harbor has some sort of structure built upon it, whether it be a seawall, wharf or pontoon. And these artificial structures   have taken away the sort of microhabitats like rock pools, crevices, tiny holes that you would see on a natural rocky shoreline.  So what Living Seawalls is doing is bringing back these natural habitat features to an artificial structure such as a sea wall. We, as marine   ecologists went out and identified features of a natural shoreline that are missing from a flat featureless seawall. And we`ve translated that onto a   Living Seawalls panel.  The panels are designed digitally and then a prototype is 3D printed. There are currently 14 Living Seawall sites around Sydney and around the entire   world. We`ve installed over 1000 Living Seawalls habitat panels. We can certainly see the difference that the living SeaWorld panels make. The   textures can provide seaweed a really strong hold onto the surface.  And that`s extremely valuable for all the marine organisms that rely on the kelp, not just for protection and for homes, but as a food source. When   there is a new construction, we want the designers to think about how they can design the structure to benefit both humans and the natural   environment.  Right now, seawalls are really only useful for humans. They stop erosion. They protect the property that`s behind it. What we want to do in the   future is think about what the marine environment needs as well as what humans need, and that way we can build more sustainably for the future.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second Trivia. The childhood home of which fictional character was located at 4 Private Drive? Sherlock Holmes, Charlie Brown, Harry Potter or Katniss Everdeen? Set mostly in a fictional Britain, Harry Potter lived at his muggle home at 4 Privet Drive.  And for today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10. We`re traveling far from the British movie studios that produce the wonderful world of Harry Potter to   Japan, where fans will be able to immerse themselves in some of the series most iconic moments at our parent company`s, Warner Bros Studio Tour Tokyo,   the Making of Harry Potter. Did you know the Harry Potter book series has sold a record half a billion copies, and it`s been translated into at least   88 different languages.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MARC STEWART, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Harry Potter`s magic --  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You`re a wizard, Harry. STEWART:  -- is transporting to Tokyo. It`s on this massive lot where fans will see some of the series most iconic sets, like the Great Hall at   Hogwarts and the Forbidden Forest. It`s part of the new Warner Bros Studio, soon to open in Japan.  (On camera):  What goes through your mind when you -- when you see the train, you see the sets, you see the costumes? JEFF NAGLER, PRESIDENT, WARNER BROTHERS WORLDWIDE STUDIO OPERATIONS:  Wow, I can`t believe it. And when I come here, I have to remember that I`m here   on a business trip and not to be looking at this as if I`m just a fan.  STEWART:  Jeff Nagler is President of Warner Brothers Worldwide studio operations.  (On camera):  Why Japan?  NAGLER:  I think that was one of the easiest decisions for us, actually, because of the whole global interest in Harry Potter after the United   States and after the U.K., Japan is the third best area for Harry Potter fandom.  STEWART:  The Tokyo studio is modeled after the one in London and will be larger, a big draw, the Hogwarts Express train that was made in London,   transported by land and by sea to its new home here in Japan.  (On camera):  It`s not just about the sets, it`s about the accessories, the costumes, the props, like the ones you`ve seen in the movies.  NOZOMI ANDO, TOU GUIDE (through translator):  We normally don`t get to see what goes on behind the scenes in movies, but here we get to see how films   get made. For example, it shows us how the people who work in the costume, props, movie set departments all work as a team.  STEWART:  Music a glimpse into movie magic far from Harry Potter`s roots in the U.K.  (On camera):  Do you see Asia as a growth market for experiences like this?  NAGLER:  Absolutely. We do look at China and we look at Japan. We look at South Korea. We have a big fan base in Australia and New Zealand as well.   All of that`s not Asia, it`s the whole Asia Pacific region.  STEWART:  Stories of imagination appealing to audiences around the world.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  That`s all we have time for, for now. Wherever you go today, be awesome. Do everything with excellence in mind. Remember how you do the   little things that determines how well prepared you`ll be for life`s biggest moments.  My favorite part of the day now, I want to give a special shout out to Osceola High School in Osceola, Missouri. We see you, go out and be awesome   y`all. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-03-22
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. Wonderful Wednesday to you. It`s #Yourwordwednesday. Follow me at Coy Wire on Instagram, Snapchat and   TikTok, and put your unique vocabulary word in the comment section of my most recent post. And we`ll choose one, fun one to work into tomorrow`s   show.  Last week word from @Brady E. Ellison was exorbitant, meaning unreasonably high price.  We`re starting out today with news out of Los Angeles, where half a million students can`t go to school because of a worker strike. The union,   representing school custodians, cafeteria workers, bus drivers, and other support staff, is forcing the nation`s second largest district to be shut   down. Teachers are also participating in a strike this week in solidarity, and here`s what the union wants, equitable wage increases, more full-time   work, respectful treatment, and increased staffing. The union workers have an average salary of $25,000 a year, and most work part time, which has led   to staffing shortages, according to the union. The cost of living in L.A. is relatively high now. The superintendent of the school district says they`ve tried to negotiate in good faith, but   California law prevents the school system from putting itself in a position that could lead to bankruptcy. And if they gave in to all the demands of   the union, well, they say, that`s exactly where they`d be.  While some argue that the school workers strike this week would negatively impact students, the district is trying to offset that by offering help to   families, by opening 24 grab and go food sites, having 154 schools provide student supervision, plus about 120 city run sites at libraries, recreation   centers, and other locations.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  More than half a million kids will not be going to school today. The second largest district in the nation, more than a   thousand schools in all, shut down by this strike, called by the union that reps the bus drivers, cafeteria workers, special ed assistants, and   custodians. Like Jose Tovar, whose current wage puts him below the poverty line.  JOSE TOVAR, CUSTODIAN:  We`re asking for the world, but they live above water.  MAX ARI, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, SEI LOCAL 99:  One in three of our members is either homeless or has been houseless while working for LAUSD.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Their union is demanding large pay hikes, more full- time jobs, more staff, and, "respectful treatment." Some parents are sympathetic.  JENNA SCHWARTZ, PARENT:  We have some of our most underpaid workers doing some of the most challenging jobs on our campuses. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The district made an offer, including a pay rise, but only half the 30% demanded.  ALBERTO M. CARVALHO, SUPERINTENDENT, LA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT:  Under California law, we cannot drive the school system into a bankruptcy   position. And if we were to acquiesce to all of the demands, that is exactly where we would be. That is not legally allowable.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  So half a million kids don`t go to school while the adults argue.  MIKE BER, PARENT:  I support my kids, and ultimately, I feel that they`re probably being left behind in a battle between, you know, adults.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Apparently, it`s gotten ugly. The district calls this strike illegal, claiming it`s all about the money, not the other stuff.  CARVALHO:  We have not been presented with compelling evidence that there`s widespread abuses. Are there issues? Yes. Each one of them is vigorously   investigated, and consequences are applied.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  During the strike, there will be some childcare provided at a few schools and parks and box lunches for the many who rely   on free school meals.  The union claims 96% of its 30,000 or so members who work in the district voted for this, a strike scheduled to last three days. So barring any   breakthroughs, there`s no school until Friday.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia.  Which of these insects belongs to the genus Bombus?  Beetle, Butterfly, Bumblebee, or Bookworm? Times up, bumblebees, if you please, belong to the genus Bombus.  Some folks may think bees just randomly fly around feeding on flowers, pushing around pollen, and then hang out in the hives making honey. Turns   out these insects are organized, smart and coachable. A recent study shows that bees can be trained to solve puzzles, and other bees can study a   demonstrator bee to then accurately solve the puzzle themselves.  No wonder bees are able to divvy out responsibilities in hives with specific jobs and roles to strategically live their daily lives. Let`s   learn more now how for bees, teamwork makes the dream work.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Check this out, these bumblebees learned how to solve a puzzle. Then they taught their friends how to do it. The prize sugar.   Researchers studied bumblebee colonies to see if they developed social learning, also known as learned behavior.  Scientists designed a two-option puzzle box that could be opened by pushing a red tab clockwise or a blue tab counterclockwise. One set of bees, called   the demonstrator bees, were trained to use the blue or red tab. Other observer bees watched, and when it was their turn, most bees chose the same   option they had observed from the trained bee. One professor said, our research shows, however, that new innovations can spread like social media   memes through insect colonies, indicating that they can respond to wholly new environmental challenges much faster than by evolutionary changes. The   researchers concluded that bees, like humans, are capable of culture by socially learning behavior.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story tallying a 10 out of 10 is a tale about tater tots. Now, don`t get me wrong, it`s super important to eat mostly fruits and   vegetables and minimally processed, healthy foods that are good for our body and mind. When I played in the NFL, my motto was eat for purpose, not   pleasure. But all of us, pro athlete or not, we have to eat some treat foods every now and then, right? Tater tots were invented back in 1953 in   Oregon as a way to keep potato scraps from going to waste.  Let`s go be spectators in Portland. Now, to learn more about the history of the tot and to see some wild and tasty tater creations.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANDREA DAMEWOOD, PORTALND MERCURY, FOOD WRITER AND RESTAURANT CRITIC:  The food scene in Portland is really eclectic right now. When you`re able to   walk into a restaurant and see like, they`re doing what now with tots, I got to try that.  One of the things that we do best is feel good, exciting, high low junk food. It`s always going to be an element of Portland, and people love to   eat that stuff. I mean, who doesn`t want tots with mac and cheese and fried chicken on it?  If you can think about the cuisine, we have a tot for it. So there`s Oaks Bottom, which coined the term totcho. That obviously has a Mexican bent to   it. There`s Japanese restaurant Boxer Ramen, and they do an okonomiyaki tot that is savory and is served with bonito flakes, which are fish flakes that   kind of dance in the heat.  There`s Korean tots, Cajun tots, Greek tots. I`m starting to feel like Bubba in Forrest Gump talking about shrimp. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Lemon shrimp, coconut shrimp.  DAMEWOOD:  We basically have all of the tots. Tater tots were invented in Oregon in the 1950s, and that was the Ore-Ida company. And they took a look   at a lot of potato scraps that they had and said, here`s a way to monetize them. And so they formed them into these tots and they`re now the tots we   know and love today. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Heartbreak Hotel, we wrapped the bacon.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thanks, look at that.  DAMEWOOD:  In its own way, it`s kind of a version of eating locals still in, like, a very hilarious frozen food way. Because Ore-Ida is an Oregon   company.  ANTHONY BROWN, NACHEAUX, OWNER AND FLAVOR MASTER: Well, tater tot is very versatile. So I was thinking, how do I make this dish tater tots? House   made sauce. How do you elevate tater tots? We`ll do tot tacos as more and more people are doing things with tots I feel like the bar went from here   to up here. So I feel like I need to, you know, just to stay relevant and make sure that we`re still crushing it.  DAMEWOOD:  I think most people who come to Portland are into food. Pound of tots, grilled onions, bacon and cheddar cheese with a fried egg on top,   brunch in a bowl. This is a place where if you like to eat and you also want to be able to walk it off in between meals, this is it. This is the   spot.  (END VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Coy? WIRE:  Oh, sorry, Jeremy. I was in deep time (ph). I want to thank everyone for commending my dad jokes and asking me to do more of them. I don`t   always tell dad jokes, but when I do he laughs.  And now, special shout out going to Utah today. Kanab High School in Kanab. We see you, Ta. Did you know that Utah`s nicknamed the Beehive State,   coming from the belief that each person works together to support one another. You better believe we appreciate you. Much love and many   blessings.  I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-03-23
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. Hope you`re having a great week. But for those of us who are having a tough one, they`re unavoidable,   they happen. Remember, tough times make us tougher. So just smell the flowers and cool the soup and know that you will be OK. It`s Thursday. Happy Friday Eve. Welcome to CNN 10. I`m Coy Wire. Let`s start with the latest on Ukraine as the country continues to fight Russia`s   invasion, the United States and other countries around the world are sending weapons to Ukraine to help them defend their homeland. The State   Department said on Monday that the U.S. will send Ukraine $350 million in weapons and equipment. The latest aid includes rockets, fuel tanker trucks,   and riverboats. The U.S. will also deploy its Abrams tanks, which has advanced capabilities and speed. And did you know that at Fort Sill in Oklahoma, the U.S. has   been instructing top Ukrainians on U.S. weapons systems. So, they`ll be prepared to use the equipment and training in the conflict? The Ukrainian   soldiers apparently picked up the material so quickly that they were given more instruction than originally planned the individuals training in the   U.S. were handpicked by Ukrainian military leaders. This comes amid concerns from the United States and its allies that China may plan to send   lethal aid to Russia, though China denied it earlier this month. CNN White House Reporter Natasha Bertrand traveled to Oklahoma to see the training taking place at Fort Sill. So, let`s hear more about what she`s   learned. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: The United States fast tracking key weapons for Ukraine`s fight against Russia heavy U.S. tanks   now set to be deployed to the country faster than originally planned. BRIG. GEN. PATRICK RYDER, PENTAGON PRESS SECRETARY: DoD, in close coordination with Ukraine, has made the decision to provide the M1A1   variant of the Abrams tank which will enable us to significantly expedite delivery timelines and deliver this important capability to Ukraine by the   fall of this year. BERTRAND: Patriot missile defense systems also due to arrive in Ukraine in the coming weeks, defense officials told CNN much sooner than anticipated. REAR ADMIRAL JOHN KIRBY, NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL COORDINATOR: They`re wrapping up training on things like the Patriot air defense system. I mean,   we`re doing everything we can to make sure that they`re ready as best they can be for these critical weeks and months ahead. BERTRAND: CNN was invited to observe the Patriot training here in Fort Sill, Oklahoma, where 65 Ukrainian soldiers, ages 19 to 67 have been   undergoing an intensive 10-week training course on the Patriot systems. Here you can see behind me a decommissioned system much like the one the   Ukrainians will be using once they get back to their home country. BRIG. GEN. SHANE MORGAN, COMMANDING GEN. FIRES CENTER OF EXCELLENCE: Our assessment is that the Ukrainian soldiers are impressive and absolutely a   quick study due to their extensive air defense knowledge and experience in a combat zone. It was easier, though never easy, for them to grasp the   Patriot system operations and maintenance concepts. BERTRAND: But the stakes are so high that CNN was not allowed to film or photograph the training, an effort to protect the Ukrainians who will be   back on the front lines in just a matter of weeks and to shield the U.S. from blowback from Moscow. U.S. officials emphasizing that the Patriots are   purely defensive and not a threat to Russia. LT. GENERAL MARK HERTLING, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: It`s a point defense system. It`s got to be placed in a location that is defending a target like   a capital city, Kyiv or a port city like Odesa. So this is not a weapon system that can be moved around on the battlefield based on changing   threats. BERTRAND: The systems will, however, help defend Ukraine against near daily missile barrages by Russia and will now likely be on the battlefield in   time to support a looming Ukrainian counter offensive. REP. MIKE QUIGLEY, CO-CHAIR, CONGRESSIONAL UKRAINE CAUCUS: What did Zelenskyy say when I met him in Kyiv? He said, help us win quickly. It`s   exactly what he said when he visited Washington, D.C. recently. And is even what Secretary Austin said he said Ukraine doesn`t have time. This spring   offensive is coming. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Researchers at Columbia University set out on a mission to create the perfect cheesecake with 3D printing. Now, this concept of using a   machine to make a three-dimensional, tangible, solid object from a digital file has been around for decades. It wasn`t until around 2005 that 3D   printing started to become more mainstream. Let`s see how these scientists fared in their quest to create the perfect cheesecake using a printer. Something tells me that in the future, many of   us are going to be reminiscent about the halcyon days when our food was made with a human`s touch. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DR. JONATHAN BLUTINGER, CREATIVE MACHINES LAB, COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY: The general principle here is as soon as you kind of touch software with an   industry, you don`t really go back. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Jonathan Blutinger and his team at Columbia`s Creative Machines Lab attempted over and over and over to make that very satisfying   cheesecake using a 3D printer. The results were terrible until they realized cheesecake`s creamy, soft texture required some rethinking. To   back up, 3D printed food has been around for years. You can find companies working on candies, sugar decorations and pancakes. One California company, Sugar Lab, has treats you can purchase right now for around $20. But at Columbia University, the researchers were dealing   with something that`s pretty well mushy. BLUTINGER: We didn`t really think about the rheology of jelly and banana being so soft and kind of mushy that it kind of just crumbled as soon as   the graham cracker paste kind of created a ceiling on top of it. So, it was a -- it was sobering experience. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: If they could figure it out, this technology could give cooks greater control over nutrition and calorie counts. And 3D   printing cuts down on human handling, which minimizes potential contamination. After a few more tries, they discovered the tricks that   worked. BLUTINGER: Then we quickly started to think and try to create little walls and kind of little pockets to hold some of these softer ingredients. We got   to a point that was pretty exciting. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The now well-structured cheesecake just needed a finishing touch. In this case, the added flair was one that separates   Columbia from their 3D printing counterparts. Blutinger used a touch of laser cooking that toasted the top with exacting precision not found in any   other cooking appliance. And the taste? BLUTINGER: Because the ingredients were packed together, you can really taste each ingredient in waves. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Now, it`s time for a story that`s dyno mite and it`s getting today`s 10 out of 10. The dad of two fur babies, two dogs played an epic prank on   his pups by putting on a puffed-up T. rex costume. And then he prowled around in the backyard. And what ensued was a dorosauruval. Our Jeanne Moos   has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT: A mere glimpse of green, some sort of alien being out in the backyard. And these two boxers, brother and   sister, go nuts. T. rex taunting them through the glass at their Las Vegas home. (On camera): So, who is in that costume? JANEEN WALSH: Oh, it was my husband. MOOS (voice-over): Janeen Walsh put her husband Andrew up to it. Nico and Stella were wary at first but got bolder and bolder. Janeen could barely   stifle her laughter. Jurassic Bark with one commenter, though, in that movie franchise, the dinosaur scared a dog to death. But Nico and Stella were fearless. (On camera): You don`t think they smelled your husband and recognized him? WALSH: At first, they didn`t. I could tell at first, they had no idea what it was. MOOS (voice-over): These are dogs not afraid to rum with a rumba. WALSH: No. MOOS: Their pursuit of the T. rex lasted about a minute before he went down for the count. MOOS: Janeen says her husband wasn`t scared. Andrew has rolled around with the dogs before, minus the dino suit. MOOS: Finally, Janeen stopped laughing long enough to ask. WALSH: Are you OK? MOOS: The boxers didn`t bite, but they made holes. WALSH: This is where Nico then decided he wanted to dive inside of it and get my husband. MOOS: At least, unlike the dinosaurs, her husband didn`t go extinct. WALSH: Are you alive? (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, everyone. We had so many. great, Your Word Wednesday submissions yesterday. Thanks to today`s winners from Mr. Charles (ph)   class at Dwight D. Eisenhower in West Berlin, New Jersey. Halcyon, did you hear it in the show? It`s an adjective denoting a time in the past that was   idyllically, happy and peaceful. For our special shout out today, we`re going to Columbus, Ohio Dominion Middle School, we see you. Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our CNN   10 YouTube Channel. Remember, each small, positive thought will help you paint a better picture today. Let`s make this day a masterpiece, baby. See   you tomorrow lovely people. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-03-24
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, hello, hello. We made it. Friday is here. The most wonderful time of the week. And it`s been an awesome one. We`ve   had some fun, learned a lot, and I`ve even got to meet one of you from Booker T. Washington Magnet High School in Montgomery, Alabama. What`s up,   Asha (ph)? And Dr. Simone Thomas, thanks for making us part of your class each and every day.  All right, we`re starting today with the latest news from Capitol Hill, where the CEO of TikTok is facing withering criticism from lawmakers. The   app, which has a reported 150 million users in the United States alone, is facing a potential U.S. ban over national security concerns. This stems   from the fact that its parent company, ByteDance, is based in China. And on Thursday, some lawmakers made their case at the TikTok congressional   hearing.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) REP. CATHY M. RODGERS, (R) CHAIR, ENERGY & COMMERCE COMMITTEE:  We do not trust TikTok will ever embrace American values, values for freedom, human   rights, and innovation. TikTok has repeatedly chosen the path for more control, more surveillance, and more manipulation. Your platform should be   banned.  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Now, the CEO, Shou Chew, is pushing back hard, saying the app is not a vehicle for the Chinese government to spy or spread propaganda in the   United States, and that its new security model has American users data being stored in America by an American company. Here`s part of his   testimony yesterday. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) SHOU CHEW, TIKTOK CEO:  The bottom line is this, American data stored on American soil by an American company overseen by American personnel. We   call this Initiative Project Texas. That`s why Oracle is headquartered. Today, U.S. TikTok data is stored by default in Oracle service only vetted   personnel operating in a new company called TikTok. U.S. data security can control access to this data.  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Let`s go to CNN Business Writer Clare Duffy for more.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CLARE DUFFY, CNN BUSINESS WRITER:  Yeah, it does sort of feel like deja vu from 2020. We were having a lot of these same conversations about whether   TikTok would be banned in the U.S. except for now it is so much more popular than It was even back then.  LUCY HOCKINGS:  TikTok --  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Here`s what you need to know about TikTok and why there`s so much pressure to ban it.  SEN. JOHN THUNE (R) SOUTH DAKOTA:  But I`m particularly concerned about TikTok`s connections to the Chinese Communist Party, which repeatedly --  DUFFY:  So, there are range of concerns about TikTok, but the main concern is really rooted in TikTok`s connection to China. TikTok`s parent company,   ByteDance is based in China, and lawmakers are concerned that the Chinese government could use that connection to access U.S. user data.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  TikTok collects a range of data from its users, including users location, IP addresses, what type of device they`re using,   and even what users are typing on their keyboards. Under Chinese Communist Party laws, the Chinese government can demand TikTok hand over that data.  DUFFY:  And so it`s really a range of data, and some of it, you could say, you know, what is the Chinese Communist Party really going to do with what   kind of device I`m accessing TikTok on? But I think the concern is that some of that information, like location data, could be used for   intelligence operations for certain folks using the app. That`s why a lot of state governments have banned government officials from using the app on   their phone.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Those concerns aren`t without merit. In December of 2022, ByteDance admitted that employees within the company had accessed the   personal data of at least two foreign journalists, including information about their location.  OLIVER DOWDEN, CHANCELLOR, THE DUCHY OF LANCASTER:  We are also going to ban the use of TikTok on government devices.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The U.S. government, it`s military, multiple state governments, the E.U., U.K and Canada have all restricted the use of TikTok   on government devices, citing security concerns.  DUFFY:  There`s also a concern that the Chinese government could force TikTok to spread propaganda to U.S. users, and that would affect users much   more broadly than just government officials.  VANESSA PAPPAS, TIKTOK`S CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER:  We have never shared data with the Chinese government, correct.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  With the Chinese Communist Party?  PAPPAS:  Yes, correct.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  TikTok`s Chief Operating Officer told Congress that the company would not give US. User data to the Chinese government, but avoided   saying whether or not its parent company, ByteDance, would do the same.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  That`s not the point. That`s not my question. That`s not my question. My question is, does any employee who has access to U.S.   user data, are they members of the Chinese Communist Party? You won`t answer that question? PAPPAS: And again, as a Global Tech --  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  China has said numerous times that fears about the government`s influence are overblown.  WANG WENBIN, SPOKESPERSON, CHINESE FOREIGN MINISTRY (through translation):  So far, the United States has been able to provide any evidence that TikTok   is a national security threat. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  In the end, it`s pretty safe to say that if TikTok was owned by a U.S.-based company, you wouldn`t be hearing anything at all   about national security concerns, after all, many apps on your phone are already collecting similar data that TikTok does, including your location.  DUFFY:  It`s a question of how much you`re comfortable with your data being shared with any app? I think it`s a question that people should be asking   about all of their app usage, and you should be paying attention to, you know, the settings that you have in your apps. Do you -- how much do you   allow your apps to access your location data or your contacts? Are you comfortable with that? I think this is something that people should be   thinking about with TikTok, but also beyond TikTok, with all the apps that they use on their phones.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia.  What`s the largest country in Western Europe?  The United Kingdom, Spain, Germany, or France?  At over 200,000 square miles, France is about the size of one and a half California`s or two Colorado.  We`re heading to France now where the country continues to face ongoing protests over the government`s plan to overhaul the pension system. The   government wants to change the national retirement age from 62 to 64 and the government says the current system is already not economically   sustainable and says that citizens are living longer now. So something needs to change.  Here`s CNN`s Senior International Correspondent Sam Kiley on the ground in Paris with more.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Violent protests, garbage on the streets and two no confidence votes, President Macron`s plan   to overhaul the French pension system has caused uproar.  But why all the fuss? As France`s population ages and the French live longer, the government here says that it can`t afford the pension scheme   that allows retirement at 62, so it`s raising the majority pensionable age to 64. Opponents of the reform argue that the changes will hit blue collar   workers because they start work earlier in life and women unfairly.  The opposition has been vocal and strikes have hit across the country since mid-January. Parisian streets have been choked with 10,000 tons of rubbish   as a result of a garbage collector`s strike. But public transport and even the oil industry have been affected. Aside from the content of the reform,   many in France have been upset by the manner in which they`ve been rammed through without parliamentary support.  Fearing that the law wouldn`t secure a majority vote for pension reform in the National Assembly, Macron`s Prime Minister invoked a constitutional   mechanism that allows the President to force fiscal legislation onto the statute book without a vote, and that sparked nationwide demonstrations and   violence in Paris, especially. On Monday, the government survived two national assembly no confidence votes.  The bills are now likely to become law, and Macron faces opposition from the French far right, the far left and a sizable chunk of the center. And   the angers against the reforms show no signs of ending and could hobble his second term in the Elysee Palace.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, it`s unbearably cute. How would you like to become a professional bear hugger? Yep, that`s right.   It`s plausible to get paid to give literal bear hugs. The details of New Mexico Department of Game and Fish`s job listing for conservation officer   includes the willingness to crawl into bear dens and hug baby bears like this one. Look at those cute little paws.  But my question is, wouldn`t mama bear be a little upset about this? I`m cool. I`m going to just stick with virtual bear hugs and air hugs to all of   you. Shout out today going to the Hong Kong International School. What`s up, Milan (ph)? Thanks for subscribing to our CNN 10 YouTube page. And also   thanks to Ms. McCann`s class at Fuquay-Varina in North Carolina. Rise up and thanks for my sweet tea. Go bangles.  Today is Friday lovely people. Remember you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with. END     

Date: 2023-03-27
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. I`m coy wire. This is CNN 10. Welcome to a brand-new week of awesome. It`s Monday, March 27, or 32723.   It`s like the number version of a palindrome. You know, a word, a phrase that spelled the same forwards and backwards, like mom or radar or was it a   car or a cat I saw? Anyways, let`s keep it moving forward and onward and upward and get you stories for the day.  Now we start with some sad news out of Mississippi, where a devastating EF- 4 tornado has brought heartache and loss. EF-4s are considered violent and extremely rare, making up only about 1% of all tornadoes. More than 20   million people in the south and parts of the Midwest were under severe storm threats as of Sunday. And at least 10 tornadoes were confirmed to   have hit Mississippi, Alabama and Tennessee over the weekend. 26 people across the Southeast were killed, dozens more injured from these powerful   storms.  We`re going to go now to Rolling Fork, Mississippi, a town of fewer than 2000 people where residents saw absolute destruction of their homes and   businesses. The mayor said that the city is just gone. The town was hit by winds of speeds of up to 170 miles per hour. Drone footage shows homes   completely leveled and unrecognizable. Vehicles were tossed around like they were nothing. Trees snapped and splintered. Search and rescue efforts   took place over the weekend, but those who were found and needed help had to be transported 50 miles away to a hospital because the one nearby wasn`t   available.  President Biden approved a disaster declaration for counties in Mississippi early Sunday morning, ordering federal aid to help recovery efforts in the   areas affected by the severe storms. We`ll hear now from CNN`s Isabel Morales with more from Rolling Fork. Please know if you or anyone you know   are affected by these tragic storms, our hearts and minds are with you.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ISABEL MORALES, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Powerful storms and at least one tornado pummeled the southeast on Friday night, nearly leveling some   neighborhoods and knocking out power for thousands, officials said. The confirmed tornado touched down in Mississippi where the   damage and death toll have been most severe. Search and rescue efforts for storm victims began after the tornado struck the towns of Silver City and   Rolling Fork.  MAYOR ELDRIDGE WALKER, ROLLING FORK, MISSISSIPPI:  The state of my town, devastation. As I look around, families are affected. Homes are torn up,   families are without a place to live, children are hungry, no clothes. We`re devastated.  MORALES:  The city of Rolling Fork is in Sharkey County, the origin of many of the storm fatalities. Mississippi Governor Tate Reeves issued a state of   emergency in all counties affected by the severe storms, according to a release. State agencies let the search for victims and FEMA has arrived to   help with the recovery.  DEANNE CRISWELL, FEMA ADMINISTRATOR:  Right now we still are in a lifesaving, life-sustaining mode, and we want to make sure that the state   has everything that they need as we work to make sure that no additional lives are lost. I think as you are watching the images and I`m watching   these images, it`s just heartbreaking to see the devastation that this community has sustained.  MORALES:  The tornado that flat of the community of Rolling Fork was rated at a strength of EF-4, according to a member of the National Weather   Service team surveying the damage.  VICE MAYOR LADONNA SIAS, ROLLING FORK, MISSISSIPPI:  Even though we lost everything, this stuff can be replaced, material things can be replaced,   but to lose a loved one, it was just heart wrenching.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia.  Which planet most closely resembles Earth in mass and size?  Mars, Venus, Neptune or Saturn?  Scientists say Venus is most similar in size though its atmosphere is said to be a poisonous inferno.  This Tuesday we`re going to be able to look up into the nighttime sky and see a rare phenomenon, a parade of planets and one of them is Venus. Now,   it`s more common to be able to see two or three planets in what`s called a planetary parade or planetary alignment. But this time, experts say, we`re   going to be able to see five planets at the same time, all lined up beneath the moon in the same part of the sky like pearls on a necklace, they say.  They also say that the sky has to be clear and that our best chance to see this planetary parade will be by looking towards the horizon in the west   just after sunset. Are you going to be watching? If so, snap a pic and tag me at Coy Wire.  Have you ever had anything delivered to your home via drone? The idea of having hovering crafts, dropping packages at our doorsteps has been around   for years, but it`s not anywhere near mainstream yet. Because of regulations from the Federal Aviation Agency, or FAA, and because of   neighborhood safety and privacy concerns, those are just some of the factors that have hampered companies abilities to deliver any sort of   product or food from above.  But the race for drone deliveries is heating up, and a fully autonomous home delivery future is closer than ever. The startup Zipline is giving us   a closer look at what that future might look like.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KELLER RINAUDO CLIFFTON, CO-FOUNDER & CEO, ZIPLINE:  What we`ve heard again and again and again is that customers really also want a way of delivering   directly to homes. And so, over the last three and a half years, Zipline has been designing all the technology. But behind the scenes, to enable   instant autonomous home delivery. They can be less expensive. There`s zero emission, and it`s just a better delivery experience to boot. It`s more reliable, it can operate with higher   service level guarantees, and it can serve more homes.  Ultimately, we do think it`s quite inevitable that you`re going to see this transition towards these more efficient, faster and zero emission ways of   delivering.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Do you hate getting up early in the morning? Well, so does Doris. Now, Doris is a dairy cow from England who`s gone viral for being so   relatable to so many snooze lovers around the world. She`ll even pretend to be sleeping while all the other cows get up to go off into the milking   machines. We see you, Doris. Milk it for all it`s worth, baby. Jeanne Moos has more.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT:  Do you hate getting up in the morning? So does Doris. All the cows at Reads Farm on the Isle of Wight   in England got up and left for milking. JOHN BRODIE, DAIRY FARMER:  Except for Doris. Doris is actually pretending to be asleep.  MOOS:  And for faking sleep, Doris has gone viral. People relate. I am Doris was a typical comment.  BRODIE:  Oh, Doris. Doris has got a fantastic personality. She is definitely more person than cow.  MOOS:  She`s one of John Brodie`s favorites.  BRODIE:  You`re a mischief maker. Leave my coffee alone, please.  MOOS:  When Doris pretended to be asleep, John called her out.  BRODIE:  Doris, come on. See your ears moving. Come on. I can see your eye. Yeah.  MOOS:  How he would know she was faking? BRODIE:  Around 30 seconds beforehand, she had her head up and was looking straight at me. She put her head back down, thinking that she was going to   get away with it just to push her up, be cheeky.  MOOS:  Now Doris has fans online. I think I found my spirit animal. Leave Doris alone. But Doris doesn`t leave John alone.  (On camera): And why was she licking the back of your head?  BRODIE:  Um, grooming. She`s grooming me. It means as far as I`m concerned, she`s accepts me as a member of the herd.  MOOS:  She grooms him. He grooms her.  BRODIE:  This is over your face.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  I am utterly in love with Doris. And we`re all utterly in love with you. Thanks to everyone who reached out to say hello this weekend. And   thanks to everyone who subscribed and commented on our CNN 10 YouTube Channel. Like the lovely folks getting a special shout out today, Cawley   Middle School in Hooksett, New Hampshire, rise up.  Chase those goals today, everyone. Work hard, study harder, and remember, the only thing holding you back is you.  I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10.  END     

Date: 2023-03-28
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, everyone. Terrific Tuesday to you. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. You`re off to great places. Today is your day. Your   mountain is waiting, so get on your way. Dr. Seuss, y`all got to love it. Today`s top story has taken us to Israel. Unprecedented wave of protests   and strikes is bringing the country to the brink of a shutdown. For months, hundreds of thousands of Israelis have taken to the streets, protesting   changes to Israel`s legal system.  But over the weekend, tensions rose higher when Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu suddenly fired the country`s Defense Minister, who`d   called for a pause in the government`s judicial reform efforts.  The country`s proposed overhaul would give Israel`s parliament more control over the judiciary, including how judges are selected, what laws the   Supreme Court can rule on, and it would also give the power to the government to overturn Supreme Court rulings.  Critics say these changes threaten the country`s democracy, removing checks and balances on the government, saying that there is no check on the   government`s power other than the Supreme Court. Critics worry that if politicians have more control, the rights of minorities in Israel,   especially Palestinians, would suffer.  The government maintains that it received a mandate to pass this reform when it was elected last November. And Netanyahu and his supporters argue   that they`ve called for reform because Israel`s judiciary has no written constitution, only a set of basic laws making the Supreme Court too   powerful.  They also say the Supreme Court doesn`t represent the Israeli people and that it has overstepped its bounds on certain issues. Protest, organizers   said that they would continue to intensify demonstrations until the legislation was halted and seemingly in an effort to bring down tensions, a   deal to postpone the government`s judicial reform efforts was reached yesterday afternoon. You can head to CNN.com for updates.  Ten second trivia.  Which of these names translates to "snow covered mountains"? Pyrenees, Sierra Madre, Appalachian, or Sierra Nevada?  In Spanish, Sierra means mountain range. Nevada means snowclad.  California has been through it when it comes to weather. For the last three years, the state has been in a desperate need of rain. Just a month ago,   about 33 million people were facing what`s been called a mega drought. But now the pendulum has swung. Atmospheric rivers or narrow corridors of   intense moisture in the atmosphere, dumping record rain and snowfall across the state. It`s led to flooding, mudslides and more. Our CNN Meteorologist,   Alli Chinchar is here to take us on a tour of the Sierra Nevada and break it all down for us. Also telling us how much rain and snow we`re talking   about.  ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Coy, it has been a record-breaking season of snowfall across the sierras this year. Take a look at this video.   The snowfall piling up as high as a two-storey house and then some. This video is even taken back on February 28, and they`ve had even more snow   since then.  But here`s the thing about the sierras. It`s broken into three separate categories. You have the northern, the central, and the southern region of   the sierras. And all three of them, when you look, have actually been very impressive this year. But specifically, the southern sierras picking up   200, 86% of their snow water equivalent. What is that? Basically what it is. It takes into account all the snow pack that`s on the ground. But then   if you melted it, what would the water equivalent be?  And in the case of the southern sierras, it`s been record breaking snow water equivalent. But how does this year compare to other years in the   past? Let`s break it down. This year has been extremely impressive, 228% of normal for that snow water equivalent.  When you look back at the previous years, they haven`t even made it to normal amounts, let alone the impressive amount that we`ve had so far this   year. But one thing to note is the impact it`s had on the drought.  Now, when you get numerous systems like this and we`ve had at least a dozen atmospheric river events back-to-back, basically all of that water has to   go somewhere. It`s not just the rain coming down from the sky, but it melts some of that snowpack.  And then all of that water flows into rivers, creeks, and streams, and also onto roadways, into homes, into businesses, because those rivers, creeks,   and streams end up becoming swollen and it`s too much for the ground to absorb all at once.  Now, in the short-term, however, though, this has been very beneficial for the short-term drought. Look at California just back on December 6, when we   had the extreme and exceptional drought categories. Fast forward to just a few days ago. Not a single portion of California is in those exceptional   and extreme drought categories anymore.  WIRE:  Now, that`s a good thing. Thanks, Alli. Any weather questions, reach out to @ Allison Chinchar on social.  All right. Up next, some inspiration and motivation from one of our CNN heroes, John Watson. He`s a fitness instructor who created bloom fitness in   honor of his daughter Emma. Mr. Watson leads students facing intellectual and developmental challenges through classes that unite, uplift and   invigorate with great passion and energy.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JOHN WATSON, BLOOM FITNESS INSTRUCTOR:  Yes. Come on, Cheryl. I need you.  When I`m front of them, it`s an explosion of excitement every single time.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We`re going to do a spring cycle class.  ATHLETES:  Yes.  WATSON:  Bloom`s mission is to lead people with intellectual and developmental disabilities to a lifetime of fitness.  (On camera):  These are really good bikes. You`re going to love it. OK.   (Voice-over):  Wellness and movement for this population, that`s critical.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Amy is our fourth child.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Heart problems are very common for people with down syndrome, so fitness is very important.  WATSON:  All right, so you all been very patient today, so I might make some mistakes. You all okay with that?  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Rafi has Prader-Willi syndrome. She has a very low metabolism, so she needs to keep moving and keep motivated. WATSON:  Let`s rock and roll. We all know the benefits of fitness. Physical, emotional, and cognitive but they don`t usually connect those   dots.  (On camera):  Two, one, go.  (Voice-over):  Safety is first. But we want them to have fun. We want them to want to do it.  (On camera):  There you go. I love it. How are you cracking it over there? Hello, baby. You got it.  (Voice-over):  We wanted to make sure that the athlete that`s in the room feels seen.  My daughter, Emma. Her diagnosis is basically cerebral palsy. She has balance problems. She`s legally blind. She developed epilepsy, some   seizures. But it`s easy with them on to focus on the good parts.  Emma, you hoping to get a low one here?  EMMA:  No.  WATSON:  You`re inspired how they work through challenges. I was looking for services for Emma and ways to help other parents. And so I came across   a service provider. And when we walked around, they had a room with broken down fitness equipment. Guys, what happens here? They said nothing happens   here. And I said, well, do you mind if I buy some bikes?  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Hi, Richanna (ph). Come on in. WATSON:  We partner with these organizations that provide services for adults with disabilities. The cost to the athlete is nothing.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Both arms up overhead, inhale deeply.  WATSON:  All of our instructors are volunteers. We do Pilates, yoga, dance. Our classes are modified.  (On camera):  We`re going to do little steps. That`s where we`re going to start.  (Voice-over):  We have a wide range of abilities. Somebody that may have limited movement. We specifically try to get them to move to how they can.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The energy, the excitement that they have to be a part of a team that means a lot to them.  WATSON:  Ryan, killing it. Come on, Cheryl, we`re almost done.  (voice-over):  You`re an athlete, no matter what your ability level is.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 musical artist, The Weeknd becoming the first in Spotify history to reach 100 million monthly   listeners. It`s a new Guinness World record. The Weeknd started making his name back in 2009, but this recent streaming surge was due to a   collaboration with singer Ariana Grande that went viral on TikTok in 2021.  I wanted what Guinness World Record we could try to break right here on CNN 10. Maybe we`ll figure it out.  Now, I went to a bookstore and I saw a book titled, How to End 50% of Your Problems. So I bought two of them. Dad Jokes onto my favorite part of the   day.  Now, I want to give a special shout out to Kernersville Middle School in Kernersville, North Carolina. We see you. We hope you and everyone watching   around the world have a wonderful one.  I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10.  END 

Date: 2023-03-29
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, everyone. Coy Wire here. Wishing a wonderful Wednesday to you. I know we`re just halfway through the week, but   we`re going to keep on grinding and shining, looking to be a little better today than we were yesterday. Now we are looking to the skies for our lead story today for the latest news on travel. March and April, they`re considered peak season for spring   break travel in America, and industry officials expect that upwards of 150 million people will fly during that two-month window alone. Travel is so busy during this time that officials at major spring break destinations like Miami, Orlando, Phoenix, Las Vegas and Los Angeles are   asking passengers to arrive three hours early to the airport. One of our CNN 10 producers, Maya, said that she`d never seen security so packed at LaGuardia Airport in New York when she flew over the weekend. But   tourism experts say that travel during this year`s spring break actually isn`t even as bad as it could have been. Bad flying experiences from last year have made some people skeptical about flying. Canceled flights and missed layovers left hundreds of thousands of   travelers stranded. A series of close calls on runways has left some worried about their safety. And staffing shortages of aircraft technicians,   flight dispatchers and pilots have some folks worrying about the efficiency of airlines and airports. So given all that, experts say that some travelers are playing it safe this year. Staying close to home. We`ll hear now from CNN Correspondent Pete   Muntean with tips for traveling from experts and passengers. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PETE MUNTEAN, CNN AVIATION CORRESPONDENT:  Spring break travel is soaring back to normal and renewing worry that your flight could be canceled.   Meltdowns plagued the FAA in January. Southwest airlines over the holidays and industry wide last summer. GEOFF FREEMAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, U.S. TRAVEL ASSOCIATION:  The air travel system is under great stress. MUNTEAN:  The Federal Aviation Administration is already warning of a shortage of air traffic controllers that could cause increased delays. At   New York`s three major airports this summer, there a key air traffic control facility is at only 54% staffing. FREEMAN:  We`re seeing it with delays, we`re seeing with cancellations and that is leading some travelers to say, you know what, I would travel more   if we could fix that air travel experience. MUNTEAN:  The latest figures from travel site Hopper show many travelers are concerned about flight disruptions. 20% of Hopper`s spring break   travelers are buying extra trip protection. That`s on top of rising airfare up 4%, Hopper says, compared to 2019. KEN DANIELS, TRAVELER:  They were quite pricey this time of year. I guess due to spring break and due to what`s going on in the economy. BYRON WITHERSPOON, TRAVELER:  They go up one day, they go down the next day. Just be diligent and be on point and when you see that good price, you   won`t hit the button. MUNTEAN:  Even still industry figures say 158 million Americans will fly for spring break. That`s an average of 2.6 million travelers each day. HAYLEY BERG, LEAD ECONOMIST, HOPPER:  We`re expecting this spring break to likely break records for number of travelers who are getting out there and   how much they`re spending given the huge demand coming out of the pandemic. MUNTEAN:  The top destinations Las Vegas, Orlando, Phoenix, Los Angeles and Miami where the airport says demand is 20% higher than 2019. So high that   officials are asking you to show up three hours before a domestic flight instead of the typical two hours. GREG CHIN, COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR:  There are very few off-peak times right now for us. We have been the best alternative to leaving the country   since COVID. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. What country shown here is located between India and Myanmar? Bangladesh, Thailand, Laos or Nepal? Home to over 165 million people, Bangladesh is the country shown on the map. A tech company is looking to bring a technology called iFarmer to farmers in Bangladesh, which provides them with financial resources and advice. The   company`s mission is to empower the farmers to yield more from the same amount of land. The catch is that investors in the technology charge the   farmers a commission on their output, and that could be seen as taking advantage of those doing the hard labor. We`ll learn more now about the   software, which is said to have furthered the livelihood of 17 million farming households. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Here along the banks of the Jamuna River, around 100 miles northwest of Bangladesh`s capital, Dhaka, Hanufa Bibi farms chili   peppers and corn. Yield is low recently, she says, due to changing weather conditions. But the 35-year-old farmer is looking to technology for solutions, an app   called iFarmer. HANUFA BIBI, FARMER (through translator):  After iFarmer help we`ve had a good experience. We`ve got a good yield of corn, a good harvest, and we are   profiting well. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  iFarmer hopes to further the livelihoods of Bangladesh`s 17 million farming households. FAHD IFAZ, FOUNDER AND CEO, IFARMER:  iFarmer is an agri-tech company that provides farmers with access to finance, access to advisory services, and   we help farmers to take their produce to the market. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Established in 2019, the startup scaled rapidly from a team of four to over 250 employees today, facilitating more than $19   million in small loans for farmers across the country, so far, they say. Agriculture is a vital part of Bangladesh`s economy. Nearly half of the country`s population is employed in the industry, with more than 70% of its   land used for farming. However, farming`s contribution to GDP is in decline. 25-year-old corn farmer, Jahidul Islam (ph), says the startup helped him set up a bank account and apply for a loan of around $470. And use soil   sensors to give him personalized information about his crops. At the nearby iFarmer Center, Islam can also get advice on farming and purchase seeds,   pesticides and fertilizers. iFarmer opened 100 of these centers, which it says supports more than 87,000 farmers using its platform. The startup plans to launch 1000 centers   by the end of the year, with the hope of supporting half a million farmers by 2025. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is a real catch. A women`s high school softball game in Texas took an unexpected turn when a base runner   dodged and danced and pulled off an unbelievable prank on the catcher. It`s not all that off base to say that this is an all-time must-see base running   fake. Jeanne Moos has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT:  Forget strikeouts, this was a fake out. Jada Walton from Carthage High School in East Texas headed for   home plate, almost got tagged out and then pointed to first base. It`s the classic made you look, look over there. The oldest trick in the book. And take another look. JADA WALTON, CARTHAGE SENIOR:  I really had no idea what to do. I was really just goofing around because I thought I was going to be out. MOOS:  Jada made it to home plate using the technique some use to steal food off a plate. The same Russ Marty used to sucker punch biff. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Now -- UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Whoa biff? UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What? MOOS:  And Back to the future that Arnold deployed -- UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Elephant. MOOS:  -- who escape in Last Action Hero Inside Edition dubbed Jada. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The Houdini of Softball. MOOS:  Even Major League Baseball gushed, you must see this all-time great base running fake out. As for those who said, the catcher deserves to be   benched, Jada cried foul. I probably would have fell for it. Anybody would because she is really like a good player. Like she`s the best on the team. MOOS:  By the way, Carthage won the game seven to five. And Jada won, bragging right. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Now that was awesome. We love when you touch base with us. It`s #yourwordwednesday. So, follow me at Coy Wire on Instagram, Snapchat and   TikTok and put your unique vocab word in the comments section of my most recent post. And we`re going to choose one fun one to work into tomorrow`s   show. Last week`s vocab word was from Mr. Tros (ph) class at Dwight D. Eisenhower in West Berlin. Halcyon, meaning happier, peaceful times of the past. Now, for a special shout out, let`s go to Michigan, Fruitport, Michigan and say, what`s up, Fruitport Middle School, rise up. Thanks for all the love.   Love right back at you. See you tomorrow, everyone. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-03-30
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hey, everybody, happy Thursday, or as I like to say, happy Friday eve. Overmorrow it will be Saturday. But first, let`s   finish this week strong. We`ve got a lot to get to, not a lot of time to do it, so let`s get to it.  Now, teacher we`re going to whip through some headlines, and as always, we recommend you preview each episode of CNN 10. One of them today involves   coverage of school safety concerns following news out of Nashville this week. Here are some headlines from around the world.  This month, the U.S. and South Korea restarted joint military drills on the Korean Peninsula, including this simulated storming of a beach. These   drills previously took place annually, but they hadn`t happened at this scale in five years. The U.S. maintains that the drills are defensive in   nature, while North Korea views this military cooperation as a threat.  In the United States, six people were killed in a school shooting in Nashville on Monday. This marked the 16th school shooting this year in the   U.S. The tragic event has sparked further debate among lawmakers in Washington, D.C. over U.S. gun control laws and has many parents and school   officials reviewing their safety protocols yet again.  Finally, in the art world, scientists say they`ve identified a secret ingredient in Leonardo da Vinci`s paintings, egg yolks. That`s right.   According to a new study published this week, European painting masters like da Vinci may have used proteins, especially egg yolks, in their oil   paintings.  This new study finds that the inclusion of egg was intentional and was a technique used to fine tune properties of the paint. That wraps your quick   look at the headlines. Now pop quiz, hotshot.  Ten second trivia.  What is the capital of Australia? Sydney, Canberra, Melbourne or Brisbane?  Though Melbourne was once the capital, Canberra became the official capital of Australia in 1927.  Being a firefight fighter is one of the most dangerous professions on the planet. And did you know that wildfires in Australia are some of the   largest and hottest on the planet? They can be devastating, completely destroying homes and habitats alike. But there`s a group of volunteer   firefighters in New South Wales working without pay to keep people and animals safe. We`re going to meet two of these heroic people to hear why   they`re willing to risk it all to keep others safe.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LAUREN WILSON, ADVANCE FIREFIGHTER, OAKS RURAL FIRE BRIGADE HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONAL: When I tell people I`m a firefighter, I actually get a lot of   mixed reactions. Oh, you do all that for free? What makes you do that? It really does spark a lot of curiosity in people.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Australia battles some of the largest and hottest wildfires on the planet. The fire season in Australia typically runs from   October until the end of March, when temperatures are at their highest. Most of the firefighting is conducted by the Rural Fire Service, a   volunteer force separate to state emergency services. The New South Wales Rural Fire Service has more than 70,000 members.  ANDREW HAIN, SENIOR DEPUTY CAPTAIN, PICTON RURAL FIRE BRIGADE INTERNATIONAL FLIGHT PLANNER: We were founded in 1939 by local farmers and local   residents that needed a firefighting service in the area, and it was a bunch of guys with old trucks or trailers. Now we`re sitting here in a   million dollar plus facility with these trucks that are basically a multi- tool. We do flood work in this. We do fires, car accidents, house fires.  WILSON: We`re coming into a family of a long line of firefighters. I believe there is that little bit of pressure. I can remember when I first   told my father-in-law that I had joined. The first thing he said to me was, as long as you can operate a pump, you`ll be fine.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: As a volunteer service, recruits come from all walks of life and require intense training before being deployed.  HAIN: It`s a huge amount of effort. A lot of hours go into training a new recruit. It`s not for bragging rights, it`s because they`ve got to go out   on the truck with you. You need to be able to work with everybody from different backgrounds. You know, people that work in corporate, people that   work in construction, you`d name it. We`ve probably got it. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (Inaudible) they`ve come Picton 1 blue.  HAIN: The common thing is this desire to help people. So you`ve got to be willing to give your time to someone else for a thank you.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: In 2019 and 2020, what became known as the Black Summer Fires burned 10.3 million land across the country.  HAIN: We were tasked to go into property protection, but the house was in a spot that was very difficult to defend. One road in, one road out. But then   you walk around this house and you look in the back window and it is a carbon copy of my kids bedroom. There`s Lego all over the floor, there`s   posters on the wall. This family have literally bundled everything they can into the car and they`ve left. They don`t know that there`s someone there   to look after their house, but you staying there and maybe putting in that extra time and that extra work is going to be the reason they have a house   to come back to.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The deadly fires claimed 33 lives, including nine firefighters. More than 3000 homes were destroyed. The house Andrew and his   crew protected was one of 14,000 saved in New South Wales. Recent years have seen some of the largest fires ever recorded. Unchecked climate change   means they could grow larger still.  HAIN: When I was growing up, there`d be fires and they`d occur, but there was nothing massive. Now they seem to be getting bigger and they talk about   megafires and giga fires just on that scale. I don`t recall anything like that.  The balance for work life, family life and the RFS can be difficult. I`ve got a five-year-old and a seven-year-old kid.  There any little boys at home?  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Daddy. Daddy.  HAIN: Hello, buddy.  They see the yellow shirt goes on and they know something`s happening. You know, they`ll be like, handing me car keys as I`m going out the door.   They`re like a little support crew. It`s quite funny.  It gets difficult to juggle, but the rewards worth it. When someone says, you know, we need help, and then you can be the person to go and deliver   that help, that`s very rewarding.  There`s nothing tangible that you get given for it. It`s just a sense of pride. I`ll be with the service for as long as I can be, but whether that`s   time and an able body, or whether it just ends up not maybe being an able body. I`m just one of those old guys telling war stories. If it`s of   benefit, I`ll be here for as long as they`ll have me.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  I don`t know if I need to quack any jokes today, because today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10 about ducks is funny enough. There`s an   historic hotel in Memphis, Tennessee, called the Peabody, and it`s said that the famous Peabody ducks own the hotel. They`re basically celebrities   treated like royalty. And hundreds of people gather every day to see a tradition that dates back 90 years, the March of the Peabody Ducks.  Why don`t you see this? Meet the Duckmaster, Mr. Kenon Walker.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KENON WALKER, DUCKMASTER, THE PEABODY MEMPHIS: The duck march ceremony is exclusive to the Peabody Hotel in Memphis, Tennessee. There was a general   manager back in 1933 that went on a duck hunting trip with a friend of his over in Arkansas. As a practical joke, they decided to bring back the live   duck decoys that they were using and set them loose inside that fountain. Now, when the general manager woke back up the next morning in a clear   mindset, I`m sure he probably got up and was like, when he got down here, there was a crowd of people standing around the fountain staring at these   ducks.  So that led to ducks living in the fountain. But then seven years later, a man by the name of Edward Pembroke just so happened that he was an animal   trainer in the Ringling Brothers in Barnum in Bailey Circus as a young man. And he was the one that came up with the idea of turning the ducks that`s   living in the fountain into a ceremony.  I have the honor and the pleasure of marching the ducks for you all this morning.  My title here at the Peabody Hotel is of the Duckmaster. A very unusual title to hold. It`s my job to train the team of ducks that we have here and   they have a $200,000 Duck Palace upstairs on the rooftop. There would be at least two to 300 people on the busy days. The number of people doing the   duck march, we`re talking into the thousand.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Ladies and gentlemen, if I may direct your attention to the elevators having just left their penthouse on the roof to join you.   Looking good. Ladies and gentlemen, the march of the world-famous Peabody Ducks.  WALKER: All the way to the fountain, I need everybody to use the steps. Come on, duckies. Let`s do it. Everybody say good morning, Duckies.  CROWD: Good morning, Duckies:  WALKER: Fantastic. Everybody use those steps for me. Everybody up the steps. Looking good there`s. 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. Great job, Duckies.  To know you`re providing an experience that`s unlike any other, it`s a privilege. I don`t consider it a job. I feel like it`s no pun intended, but   it`s a calling.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  We love puns, and they should always be intended. All right. I told a taradiddle I will quack a joke today. What do ducks wear to fancy   parties? A duck-sedo. All right. We had some great your word Wednesday submissions. Vocabulary words are off the charts. Awesome. Thanks to @Mikayla04264. Taradiddle, a   noun meaning a petty lie.  And thanks to Pocono Mountain East High School for overmorrow, meaning the day after tomorrow. Well done. Shoutout time now, we`re headed to Massachusetts to Tyngsborough, home of the Griffins, Greater Lowell Technical High School, you rock. We hope you   and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one.  I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10.  END     

Date: 2023-03-31
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, lovely people. It`s Friday. Finally, happy that you`re spending some time with me. If you`re hyped and you`re liking   this rhyme with me, we`ll do it again on the 10. That`d be fine by me. Hey, now, let`s go. It`s been an awesome week and we`re going to finish this week strong. We`re starting today`s show, we`re going to talk about   the big news on the artificial intelligence front. Artificial intelligence, or AI, is, in simple terms, technology that enables machines to mimic human   intelligence. It includes a wide range of technology, though. There are personal assistants like Siri on smartphones or Alexa on devices in houses. There   are self-driving cars, food serving robots and lots more. AI technology is rapidly evolving, and it has the potential to completely change society   even more as we know it. A product launched this year called ChatGPT is grabbing headlines because of its uncanny ability to have intelligent conversations with humans,   answer questions in written form and mimic people nearly perfectly. Experts are now voicing some serious concerns. There`s potential for AI to increasingly take more jobs away from people, allow students to easily   cheat in school, and for people to use other identities to spread misinformation. In some cases, AI technology is now being created to combat the problems that were caused by AI in the first place. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) EDWARD TIAN, FOURNDER, GPTZERO:  It`s incredible innovation. At the same time, it`s like opening a Pandora`s box. VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS & POLITICS CORRESPONDENT:  Which is why Edward Tian, a 22-year-old Princeton student himself, spent his winter   break building GPTZero, which he says can detect whether something is likely written by a human or ChatGPT. He says teachers use it to check   their students` papers. (On camera):  Is this like one AI cross checking another AI? TIAN:  In a sense, yeah. (On camera):  But can it spot misinformation? TIAN:  Oh, OK. Yeah. So as opposed to misinformation, it`s more of like it can only spot if something is AI generated or human generated. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Major leaders in tech like Elon Musk, professors and researchers, are so concerned about the rapid development of artificial intelligence   that they`re now calling for AI labs to stop developing the technology completely for at least six months. They signed a letter which is published   by the Future of Life Institute, a nonprofit backed by Musk. The letter comes just two weeks after OpenAI announced GPT-4, an even more powerful   version of the ChatGPT technology. This version was able to pass tests, create websites, even draft lawsuits. The tech leaders want experts to develop a set of protocols or rules for   AI, and they said if they don`t, the government needs to step in and stop it. CNN`s Correspondent Donie O`Sullivan met with a professor at UC Berkeley School of Information and tried out an AI software that mimics voices to   see how powerful and dangerous this technology could be. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NOREEN O`SULLIVAN, MOTHER OF DONIE O`SULLIVAN (voice-over):  Hello? A.I. DONIE O`SULLIVAN:  Hi, mom. N. O`SULLIVAN (voice-over):  Hi, Donie. How are you? A.I. O`SULLIVAN:  Does my voice sound different to you? N. O`SULLIVAN (voice-over):  Yeah, I just said that to Sinead (Donie`s sister). I said Donie sounds so American. (LAUGHTER) A.I. O`SULLIVAN:  This is not actually me. This is a voice made by computer. N. O`SULLIVAN (voice-over):  Oh, my God. Are you serious? A.I. O`SULLIVAN:  Yeah, sorry. DONIE O`SULLIVAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  There has been an explosion and fake audio and voices being generated through artificial intelligence   technology. AI-GENERATED VOICE:  This is an A.I. clone version of Walter White`s voice. AI-GENERATED VOICE:  This is an A.I. clone version of Leonardo de Caprio`s voice. O`SULLIVAN:  All you need is a couple minutes recording of anyone`s voice and you can make it seem like they have said just about anything, even -- AI-GENERATED VOICE:  Anderson Cooper. We`ve come here to U.C. Berkeley today to talk to Hany Farid, a digital forensic expert, about just how easy   it is to put words into other people`s mouths. O`SULLIVAN (on camera):  It`s a lot of fun. HANY FARID, PROFESSOR, UC BERKLEY SCHOOL OF INFORMATION:  Sure. O`SULLIVAN (on camera):  But it`s also really scary. FARID:  I think once you put aside that Jewish (ph) factor, I don`t think it takes a long time to look at the risks. AI-GENERATED VOICE:  This is Wolf Blitzer. Hany Farid, you`re in the situation room. FARID:  That`s good. O`SULLIVAN (on camera):  That sounds real. (Voice-over):  By uploading just a few minutes of me and so my colleagues` voices to an A.I. audio service, I was able to create some convincing   fakes. The technology did struggle with my Irish accent, but we decided to put it to the ultimate test with my parents. (On camera):  I`m about to try call my mom back in Ireland and see if I can trick her with this voice. FARID:  Yeah. O`SULLIVAN (on camera):  Let`s see if we are going to be successful. FARID:  I`m nervous. My hands are. (LAUGHTER) O`SULLIVAN (on camera):  All right. (RINGING) N. O`SULLIVAN (voice-over):  Hello? A.I. O`SULLIVAN:  Hi, mom. N. O`SULLIVAN (voice-over):  Hi, Donie. How are you? A.I. O`SULLIVAN:  Just finished shooting our story here. I`m going to the airport in a while. N. O`SULLIVAN (voice-over):  There seems to be a delay in the phone, Donie. A.I. O`SULLIVAN:  Can I say a quick hello to dad? N. O`SULLIVAN (voice-over):  Yep. DONAL O`SULLIVAN, FATHER OF DONIE O`SULLIVAN (voice-over):  Hi, Donie. A.I. O`SULLIVAN:  Hi, dad. D. O`SULLIVAN (voice-over):  How are you doing? A.I. O`SULLIVAN:  How are you? D. O`SULLIVAN (voice-over):  Good, yourself? A.I. O`SULLIVAN:  Just finished shooting our story here. I am going to the airport in a while. D. O`SULLIVAN (voice-over):  Oh, you`re going back to New York? A.I. O`SULLIVAN:  Are Kerry playing this weekend? D. O`SULLIVAN (voice-over):  They`re playing Tyrone Sunday. O`SULLIVAN (voice-over):  My dad went on to have a conversation with the A.I. Donie about how Kerry, our home football team, had a game that   weekend. Eventually, I had to come clean. (On camera):  Dad, I will give you a call better later on. Can you just put me back to mom for a second? (Voice-over):  My parents knew something was off, but ultimately, they still fell for it. N. O`SULLIVAN (voice-over):  Oh, yeah, some of it don`t be bad, but it was like -- it was like your voice was a little tone lower and it sounded like   very serious like you had something serious to say. Because I went, oh, jeez, my heart was hopping first. O`SULLIVAN (on camera):  Oh, sorry. D. O`SULLIVAN (voice-over):  I thought the voice was very funny. Thought the voice was very funny, yeah. O`SULLIVAN (on camera):  All right, I`ll call you later, dad. D. O`SULLIVAN (voice-over):  OK, bye-bye. O`SULLIVAN (on camera):  Bye. FARID:  This is not classic. The mom is like, something is wrong with my son. The dad is like, everything is fine. (LAUGHTER) AI-GENERATED VOICE:  I`d like to close out today`s ceremony with a question. If you are given a choice, would you choose to have unlimited   bacon but no more video games? O`SULLIVAN (voice-over):  With fake Biden and Trump recordings going viral online, Farid says this could be something to be wary of going into the   2024 election. FARID:  When we enter this world where anything can be fake, any image, any audio, any video, any piece of text, nothing has to be real, we have what`s   called a liars` dividend, which is that anybody can deny reality. O`SULLIVAN (voice-over):  With a flood of new A.I. tools releasing online, he says companies developing this powerful technology need to think of its   potential negative effects. FARID:  There is no online and offline world. There is one world. And it is fully integrated. When things happen on the internet, they have real   implications for individuals, for communities, for societies, for democracies. And I don`t think we as a field have fully come to grips with   our responsibility here. O`SULLIVAN (voice-over):  In the meantime, I will continue annoying my colleagues. (On camera):  Hear this thing Anderson said. AI-GENERATED VOICE:  I have been doing this a long time. I have to say, Donie O`Sullivan is probably the best in the business. O`SULLIVAN (on camera):  Incredible. FARID:  Very good. O`SULLIVAN (on camera):  That`s very kind of him to say that as well. FARID:  You know, you should be honored, really. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second Trivia. The name of which of these prehistoric creatures means "king of the tyrant lizards?" Velociraptor, Tyrannosaurus rex, Supersaurus, or Titanosaurus? You look out, it`s a T rex. In Greek, tyrannosaurus means tyrant lizard, and rex means king in Latin. Our CNN 10 story getting a 10 out of 10. Who wants a T Rex? This 38-foot- long skeleton of the tyrant lizard is going up for auction next month in Switzerland. It`s the third T Rex skeleton that`s ever been found. The bones were actually found in Montana and Wyoming. If you want this 67-million-year-old   T rex, get ready to bust out some tyrannosaurus checks. Trinity, as its name is expected to go for between $5 and $9 million. That`s a lot of   money. And you are so money, baby. I want to give a special shout out now to Inglewood Middle School in some Sammamish, Washington. Rise up. Think   awesome thoughts this weekend, everyone. Our thoughts influence the type of days we`ll have. Those days become the weeks and months, then years that   make up our lives. So how we`ll be living in five years is determined in part by the types of thoughts we have today. Think well, everyone. And remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with. END     

Date: 2023-04-03
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, everyone? I`m Coy Wire, coming to you from Houston, Texas, today. Rise up.  I am here covering all the action at this year`s final four and the college basketball national championship game. I am so grateful to be here with you   to help you jump start your week right here on CNN 10. Now we do start today with some tragic news for our lead story. The communities in the South and Midwest regions of the United States were hit   by severe tornadoes, more than 50 preliminary tornado reports were recorded Friday in at least seven states and communities across the country faced   absolute devastation this weekend. Neighborhoods were leveled with homes and businesses destroyed, the roofs of buildings were torn off by wind and   as of Sunday, when we recorded our show, 27 people have been reported dead.  And the threat of more tornadoes had shifted to the southern plains where nearly 13 million people in north Texas, including the Dallas-Fort Worth   area face an enhanced risk for severe weather. The latest destructive weather across the South and Midwest comes just a week after a severe   tornado walloped up the southeast, killing at least another 26 people and destroying much of Rolling Fork, Mississippi.  In addition, storms have also knocked out power to these struggling communities. When we recorded our show Sunday, more than 30,000 customers   in Arkansas remain impacted by power outages, with hundreds of thousands more without power across the south and northeast, including 120,000 in   Pennsylvania, 73,000 in Ohio.  The governors of Indiana, Iowa, Illinois and Arkansas have all declared emergency or disaster declarations in their states to provide immediate   assistance to impacted counties. President Joe Biden has also issued a major disaster declaration for Arkansas.  We`ll hear now from CNN meteorologist Derek Van Dam who`s currently in Wynne, Arkansas, assessing the damage. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DEREK VAN DAM, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  We are in badly devastated Wynne, Arkansas, where electrical vehicles and companies are on the scene, trying   to assess the initial damage here that the mayor described has literally split his town in half. And we are standing directly in that path from this   devastating tornado.  I want you to see behind me, this is a home, that is a living room and that`s somebody`s piano. There`s no music being played there today. This   house has been vacated. There have been injuries.  Overnight, there were active search and recovery efforts taking place. We`ve walked around this area. The Wynne high school here in Arkansas, home   to the Yellowjackets, their home football field was decimated by this tornado and I want you to see it from the air because you can notice the   kind of indiscriminate nature of a tornado and how its path of destruction is very concentrated.  It`s literally like peeling back the skin off of an orange, took the artificial turf and ripped it off of their home field. But on the other   side of the football field, it was left untouched so were some homes. but the areas where it hit hardest of course completely devastated and we have   seen just the true nature of how incredible Mother Nature can be. It is a scary morning as we get first light and get a idea of just how bad this tornado really was. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Former President Donald Trump is expected to appear in a New York courtroom tomorrow, following a formal criminal charge late last week by a   Manhattan grand jury. The charges include more than 30 counts related to business fraud, but the specific details of the indictment have not been   made public. This is the first time in U.S. history that a current or former president has been criminally charged.  But did you know that Ulysses S. Grant was once arrested for speeding. That`s right, speeding on his horse-drawn carriage all the way back in   1872.   Now, in response to the charges, the former president has maintained his innocence and claims that the charges are politically motivated. The   unprecedented nature of bringing a former U.S. president in for criminal charges has activated a complex choreographed security effort in the city   of New York. CNN`s Shimon Prokupecz is in Manhattan as the city prepares for Tuesday`s arraignment. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SHIMON PROKUPECZ, CNN SENIOR CRIME AND JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  With an unprecedented indictment comes immense security challenges. The   NYPD, along with court officers U.S. marshals and the United States secret service are running through logistics of how Tuesday`s historic arraignment   of the former president will go down. Law enforcement sources telling CNN officials are conducting a dry run of Trump`s movements including his motorcade route to the courthouse in   downtown Manhattan where he is expected to be arraigned Tuesday afternoon. How he will get inside the courtroom flanked by Secret Service and what   will the arrest process look like. Will he be treated like any other defendant?  The former president expected to be fingerprinted and photographed for a mug shot. It`s a massive effort starting when Trump arrives by plane   Monday, securing Trump Tower, the court and the motorcade route. KENNETH COREY, FORMER NYPD CHIEF OF DEPARTMENT:  In this case though where you have a former president and certainly a president with as large a   following as former President Trump, there`s a lot of unique concerns that are going to come into play. I think that the bigger unknown here is going   to come in the form of protests or potential protests.  PROKUPECZ:  Officials are also bracing for protests after Trump urged his supporters to protest his arrest when news of the indictment reportedly   neared.  So far, the mayor`s office says there are no credible threats to the city and out of an abundance of caution, every member of the NYPD, some 35,000   officers, are reporting for duty in uniform and prepared for mobilization. COREY:  The challenge for the NYPD is going to be protecting everybody`s First Amendment right, allowing everybody to have their voice heard and to   do so in a way that keeps the peace. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next, we`re catching up with Nelly Cheboi who was named CNN Hero of the Year. Her non-profit organization TechLit has gained widespread   recognition for its efforts to up-cycle old computers and provide tech education to rural communities in Kenya. We`ll delve into Nelly`s   experiences since winning the award and here firsthand what it meant to achieve such a momentous victory. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANDERSON COOPER AND KELLY RIPA, CNN TOP CNN HEROES HOSTS:  Nelly Cheboi. (CHEERS) NELLY CHEBOI, CNN HERO OF THE YEAR:  You can only imagine like how crazy it was when I was named the CNN Hero of the Year. I thought I was like, I`m   about to fall down. I look at the audience. You know, it was my mom screaming back at me. Like most women that come before her, they die in poverty like that`s all they know -- poverty. I don`t think it can get any bigger than that.  It was really heartwarming to see that the work was bigger than me now. WILLIAM RUTO, KENYAN PRESIDENT:  We also congratulate Nelly Cheboi. CHEBOI:  The president of Kenya congratulated me, talked about TechLit, which has become a household name in Kenya. Everyone knows that we are   teaching kids computer skills. What I`m really excited about is the future in Kenya and in the rest of the continent where kids are going to be learning about the tech world. Let`s start with him. There`s hope like poverty has an expiration date, right?  When you were growing up in poverty, you think of yourself as less than. I knew just how powerful the kids celebrating this award was, I wanted to   turn that into like hey, yes, this can happen for you, too. Yes. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Who invented the game of basketball? Jerry West, James Naismith, Abner Doubleday or Walter Camp? On December 21st, 1891, PE instructor James Naismith using a soccer ball and two peach baskets created what was called a new game of ball. (MUSIC) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a out of is from right here in Texas. We`ve had a ball covering what`s been called the wildest final four of all time,   women`s and men`s. Last night in the women`s championship game, it was LSU winning it all. They`ve been led all season by superstar Angel Reese and   their hall of fame coach, of course, Kim Mulkey, who has some of the most flamboyant fashion in all of sports. You go, Tigers! Congrats to LSU.  And tonight, right here in Houston in that stadium behind me, the men`s title game. It`ll be San Diego State and UConn playing for all the marbles.   I caught up with the head coaches from each team and found out that they are both superstitious. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) BRIAN DUTCHER, SAN DIEGO STATE MEN`S BASKETBALL COACH:  I wear the same shoes, the same socks, you know, I`m -- I`m -- I`m trying to stay   consistent with what I`ve got on for every game. We`re on a win streak, I don`t want to change anything. WIRE:  Same shoes, how long you`ve been wearing them? DUTCHER:  They`ve been through two Gatorade baths, two cutting down of nets. WIRE:  Is it true that you`ve been wearing a certain same sort of a clothing article for superstitious reasons? DAN HURLEY, UCONN MEN`S BASKETBALL COACH:  Yeah, I -- that`s definitely true, as well as the socks. But the socks are unremarkable, they`re just a   blue pair. WIRE:  But the same pair. HURLEY:  Same pair and I`ve gone back to an older pair of shoes that I won at Rhode Island when we -- when we won in the NCAA tournament there. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Now, I`m not superstitious, but I am sometimes a little bit stitches. How about you? Any superstitions?  One thing we always do though because we believe it keeps the good mojo flowing is give a shout-out every show to show you some love.  Today`s shout out is going to Rochester, Minnesota. Willow Creek Middle School, go Wildcats! We see you we hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10.   END     

Date: 2023-04-04
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. Terrific Tuesday to you.  I`m still here in Houston after watching a great NCAA men`s national championship basketball game last night. It has been awesome. Running into   some of you while I`ve been here. Thanks for all the love. All right. Let`s get this show started, shall we?  Let`s start among the stars with some news from outer space, as it`s looking likely that we`ll be seeing some history being made. NASA`s Frank   Rubio on track to become the first American astronaut to spend a full year in space. Rubio traveled to the International Space Station back on   September 21st, thinking it would be just a six-month mission.  He was expected to land back on Earth this spring, but the Russian spacecraft that carried Rubio and two of his Russian colleagues actually   had a coolant leak in December. Russia`s space agency later announced that it wouldn`t have been safe for the spacecraft to bring all the astronauts   home. This means Rubio has to stay even longer in space. NASA announced the early is he can return to earth now will be on September 27th and that   would mean he`d be logging at least 371 days in orbit.  Rubio`s tour of duty would be historic as it would surpass the previous American record which is 355 days set just last year. The world record   still belongs to a Russian cosmonaut who logged 437 continuous days in orbit aboard Russia`s Mir space station back in 1994 and `95.  Now, this is all really a unique situation particularly because even though the U.S. and Russia have intense geopolitical tensions here on Earth, both   superpowers are working hand in hand when it comes to space exploration. Our Michael Holmes has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  A collaboration in space when relations between Russia and the U.S. on earth are at their worst in   decades. NASA and Russia`s space agency Roscosmos say they`ve signed a long-sort seat swapping agreement which would allow astronauts and   cosmonauts to exchange places on missions. NASA says the first of these cross flights is expected when U.S. astronaut Frank Rubio blasts off to the International Space Station on a Russian   Soyuz spacecraft. And cosmonaut Anna Kikina joins the fifth SpaceX crew Dragon launch the same month. Historic rivals space exploration has always been a point of highs and lows for Russia in the U.S., both trying to outdo each other in the 1960s space   race. The Soviet Union sending the first man into outer space, the U.S. landing the first crew on the moon. But in recent decades, space has been   more of a joint effort between the two nations, especially after the creation of the ISS, which is operated by NASA, Roscosmos and several other   space agencies.  Both the U.S. and Russia have hitched rides with each other. Russian cosmonauts flew on the U.S. space shuttle before the fleet was replied in   2011. After that, American astronauts traveled to the ISS on Soyuz spacecraft, until NASA resumed its own launches in 2020 by partnering with   the commercial space company SpaceX.  (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DEREK VAN DAM, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  When Arkansas,  home of the Yellowjackets, we are currently standing on what was the home football   field for the Wynne high school.  Look at this -- this is one of the light structures that were supposed to illuminate this field. You can see some of the broken lights here below us.  But what`s most astounding to this meteorologist is just the true force of this powerful twister that tore this path of devastation. Hard to get the   perspective but I`ll show you an aerial what you`re looking at is the peeled back artificial turf that was sucked up by the powerful updraft of   this tornado.  There it is still in place in the distance and then look at what`s behind me here, like a skin of an orange being peeled back. This is what`s left   leaving the rock exposed below it and behind me, Wynne Yellowjackets proudly displayed on the water tower. This area has received significant to   catastrophic damage. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: in which of these countries would you find the world`s tallest waterfall? Venezuela, Canada, Peru or Zimbabwe? Located in the South American country of Venezuela, the 3,200-foot Angel Falls is the tallest fall of them all. Now, some people don`t go chasing waterfalls. They stick to the rivers and lakes that they`re used to. But in Venezuela, some things just aren`t what   they used to be like news anchors. Venezuelans are seeing increased fake news and widespread misinformation about their country through avatars,   fake anchors made of artificial intelligence reporting the news.  Though the avatars may have been created as a faster way to communicate information these fake videos are now being used to hide real problems   going on inside Venezuela and many see it as propaganda. Stefano Pozzebon is on the story. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) STEFANO POZZEBON, CNN CONTRIBUTOR:  This isn`t actually a real person. Take a closer look. This fake avatar was created using artificial intelligence   to look like a real human. In recent months, videos like these have been shared across Venezuelan social media and even on state-run television to   spread misinformation about the country. FAKE AVATAR:  Media from different countries had described the event organized by Venezuela as a total and unexpected success. POZZEBON:  This year, Venezuelans have been taken to the street to demand better living conditions. The country`s minimum wage is less than ten   dollars a month. And last year, inflation was over 200 percent.  But this artificial news clips have been trying to make the country look more prosperous. Marivi Marvin Vasquez (ph), the executive director at ProBox, a Venezuelan- based organization that monitors for online misinformation, says that these A.I.-generated people have been created and spread with a specific purpose. MARIVI MARVIN, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, PROBOX:  To sell to the international community a different reality about the country, of success, happiness and   stability that really doesn`t exist. FAKE AVATAR:  So how true is it that Venezuela is such a poor country? Has the media exaggerated things in that place? POZZEBON:  And it`s not just social media. The Venezuelan government itself is helping to spread these videos on social media and even on state-run   television. Even Nicolas Maduro, the country`s embattled president, has shared the videos. NICOLAS MADURO, VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT (translated):  They are all artificial intelligence. They do not exist. They are robots created by artificial   intelligence. I am robot.  POZZEBON:  These fake videos are often in English with Spanish subtitles and are shared on social media which is often a trusty source of news for   many Venezuelans, because the government imposes strict controls on the country`s traditional media. CRISTINA TARDAGUILA, SENIOR PROGRAM DIRECTOR, INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR JOURNALISTS:  You go from completely lack of reliable information in the   traditional media, in your region, and then you go towards the other end. So, you`re suddenly like eating, drinking, smelling everything that is on   your WhatsApp or your telegram or your social media. FAKE AVATAR:  Start by selecting an A.I. avatar. FAKE AVATAR:  Like me. FAKE AVATAR:  Or me. FAKE AVATAR:  Or me. POZZEBON:  These A.I. avatars are advertised as a way for companies to create easy to make instructional videos for example. The company behind   the technology says that it`s not intended to spread false narratives. When asked for comment, the company told CNN that it has since banned House of   News from using it`s A.I. software. YouTube has also removed the channel from its platform.  It`s still unclear who originally created these videos, as well as if the Venezuelan government was involved. The government did not respond to CNN`s   request for comment. FAKE AVATAR:  Hey there. I`m Matt and I can --   POZZEBON:  If you`re unsure about whether or not a video that you`re watching is done by one of these fake avatars, pay close attention to their   speech and mouth movement. FAKE AVATAR:  Has a dozen pavilions that occupy 23 hectares. POZZEBON:  Do their words align with the movements of their mouth. Do this movement feel awkward or constricted.  FAKE AVATAR:  Security will be in charge of guards from the general directory. POZZEBON:  If that is the case, you`re watching a digital avatar. It`s not a real person. FAKE AVATAR:  In Venezuela, it is estimated that 8 million people will mobilize in the next vacation. POZZEBON:  When your friend and your own government are sharing this misinformation, it demands a lot more vigilance to see through the lies and   find the truth. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right. We started this show way up high in the sky in space but now we`re taking you way down underwater for today`s 10 out of 10.  Scientists filmed the deepest fish on record. They released this footage of a young snail fish swimming deep in the trenches off of Japan at a depth of   more than 27,000 feet. That`s almost as deep as the 29,000-foot Mount Everest is high, and this fish is about 2,000 feet deeper than the previous   record. Marine biologists said that younger deep sea snail fish like this one often stay as deep as possible to avoid being eaten by bigger predators swimming   above. Now some other fish are swimming down solo because they dropped out of school. Hey, yo, dad jokes for you. Let`s finish this strong with my favorite part of the show. I want to give a special shout out to Park Middle School in Lincoln, Nebraska. We see you   representing the Corn Husker State.  Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our CNN YouTube Channel, and thanks for all the love. Many blessings y`all. Go out and make it an   awesome day. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10.   END     

Date: 2023-04-05
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, friends. Coy Wire here. So happy to be with you.  It is #YourWordWednesday. So, hit me up @CoyWire on Insta, Snapchat and TikTok and put your unique vocabulary word in the comment section of my   most recent post and we`ll pick and fun one to work into tomorrow`s show. Last week`s word from @Makaela0426 was taradiddle. Meaning a petty little lie.  Without further ado, let`s do what we do. CNN 10 starts right now. We start in New York City where former President Donald Trump was scheduled to appear in a courtroom yesterday, facing criminal charges. Last week, the   former president was indicted by a Manhattan grand jury. The charges include more than 30 counts related to business fraud. The Manhattan`s   district attorney`s office has been investigating Trump`s alleged role in a hush money payment scheme, and subsequent cover-up dating back to the 2016   presidential campaign. Throughout this legal process, though, Trump has maintained his innocence and has denied any wrongdoing. The former president also accuses Democrats   of targeting him politically with these charges. A recent CNN poll shows that 60 percent of Americans approve of the indictment. That same survey   says that most Americans, 76 percent, do believe that politics played at least some role in this indictment. Prior to the court appearance yesterday, Trump`s legal team said the former president would voluntarily surrender and would look to challenge every   potential issue once the indictment was unsealed. This arraignment is historic. It was the first time a current or former U.S. president has been   criminally charged. We`ll take a look now at the events of the day. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MIKE VALERIO, CNN NEWSOURCE NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Former President Trump is now back in Florida, saying on Truth Social that he did nothing wrong   and nothing illegal, but prosecutors here in Lower Manhattan would certainly beg to differ, accusing him of engaging in a criminal conspiracy   to undermine the integrity of the 2016 election. (voice-over):  Former President Donald Trump indicted and arraigned on 34 counts related to business fraud. Tuesday`s legal proceedings relatively   short, but its impact on American history seismic, unprecedented. Trump is now the first ever former or sitting president to be criminally charged.  TODD BLANCHE, FORMER PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP`S ATTORNEY:  He`s frustrated. He`s upset. But I tell you what? He`s motivated and it`s not going to stop   him and it`s not going to slow him down, and it`s -- it`s exactly what he expected. ALVIN BRAGG, MANHATTAN DISTRICT ATTORNEY:  Thirty-four false statements made to cover up other crimes. These are felony crimes in New York state,   no matter who you are. We cannot and will not normalize serious criminal conduct. VALERIO:  Trump is already looking ahead towards a possible trial, posting Tuesday morning that it should be moved to Staten Island, because Manhattan   would be, quote, very unfair.  The security around the New York City courthouse was ramped up ahead of Tuesday`s arraignment, with overall peaceful crowds gathering before and   against Trump.  The next step for Trump, back at home at Mar-a-Lago Tuesday night, where his lawyers have said they`ll dissect every charge in the now unsealed   indictment and plan their defense. And the judge in this case did not issue a gag order, meaning that the former president can talk about this matter, but the judge here in Lower   Manhattan urged both sides -- the former president and the prosecution -- to refrain from inflammatory rhetoric. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia:  What was the only U.S. battleship to get underway during Japan`s attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941? USS California, West Virginia, Nevada or Oklahoma? The USS Nevada was the only battleship to start moving though it was hit by a torpedo and multiple bombs. We`ll head to Pearl Harbor now for our next story. Last year, the U.S. announced a landmark submarine deal with Australia and the U.K. where   nuclear-powered submarines will be sent to Western Australia. These underwater warships will be strategically located there in case China,   which has the world`s largest navy, looks to possibly grow its presence in the Pacific region.  So how massive are these U.S. submarines? Our Will Ripley gives us an exclusive look inside the USS Mississippi. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Our journey begins in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, the bustling hub of the U.S.   Pacific fleet, covering almost half the world, 100 million square miles, 1,500 aircraft, and around 200 ships, including more than half of the   navy`s nuclear-powered submarines.  Today, we`re getting an exclusive look inside the USS Mississippi, one of the most powerful warships on the planet -- with a crew of around 140   people.  Rear Admiral Jeff Jablon is commander of the Pacific fleet submarine force, facing new powerful threats in the hotly contested Indo-Pacific. The Mississippi is one of 49 fast attack submarines in the U.S. Naval fleet. The fleet also has 14 larger submarines carrying nuclear-armed   ballistic missiles. The U.S., U.K. and Australia`s newly announced AUKUS partnership will send nuclear-powered submarines to Perth, potentially   challenging China`s ambitions for the region. Beijing now has the world`s largest navy, but U.S. submarines have the world`s most advanced technology, a key advantage in underwater warfare. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Mississippi is ready to dive. UNIDENTIFIED MALES:  Dive! RIPLEY:  The sub is capable of diving deep and fast, descending hundreds of feet in a matter of seconds. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Three hundred feet. RIPLEY:  At angles of up to 25 degrees, even standing up can be a challenge. Traveling underwater makes the submarine almost impossible to detect, the nuclear reactor is so quiet, the sub submarine makes less noise than a   whale. In the dark depths of the ocean, there`s no light to navigate. The team relies on highly sensitive sonar. The USS Mississippi, like all of America`s nuclear submarines, can`t essentially sustain itself under the water for weeks or even months at a   time because of the nuclear reactor that powers them. They breathe recirculated air and purified water. The only thing that they need to   actually get resupplied with is food for the crew members and that means that they get used to spending a very long time not only without sunshine   and blue skies but also without regular communication or conversations with their families. The food on submarines is surprisingly good, but spending months under water can be tough. No mobile phones allowed. Outside communication only   possible on emails. At the back of the sub, Jack O`Brien works with a team of technical engineers. Do you ever get bored on a sub? JACK O`BRIEN, CREW MEMBER, USS MISSISSIPPI:  No, no, that`s absolutely not. Every day I come in, thinking I know what I`m -- thinking I know exactly   what`s going to happen, what I got to do. RIPLEY:  Rear Admiral Jablon says deterrence is the key objective. Submarines like the USS Mississippi are constantly preparing for war, ready   at a moment`s notice for whatever the future holds. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Our next story now takes us to Berkeley microbiology lab where we`re given a 10 out of 10 to a furry squirrel who learned how to ring a bell to   get a treat. This video has gone viral on TikTok and shows us just how smart these bushy-tailed tree dwellers can be.  Our Jeanne Moos shows us how this little squirrel is treating an office building window like his very own fast food drive through. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  What does this California squirrel have in common with these humans? Ringing for service can drive a person squirrely.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I heard this like incessant ringing noise, I was like what is going on, and my co-worker was like, oh, we taught the squirrel to   ring the bell. MOOS:  Grad students and researchers at this Berkeley microbiology lab enjoy feeding a squirrel who comes to their window ledge. But recently,   they trained the squirrel to ring the bell to get a treat. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Good job, Kluyver. MOOS:  They named him Kluyver after a famous microbiologist Albert Kluyver. Online posters were smitten though someone griped, he only gets one almond after all that? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I think we don`t want the squirrel to rely on us as the main source of food. MOOS:  They trained Kluyver by making the bell ring whenever he begged and if he happened to strike the string waving his paws he got a knot. But the   peanut gallery complained, lower the bell, jeez. So they not only lowered the string, they gave the squirrel a step stool mug. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I lengthened the string. Yeah, I caved into the criticism a little bit. MOOS:  In the immortal words of Lurch.  LURCH:  You rang? (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Awesome sauce. All right, now, we can`t finish this show without my favorite part. Thanks to everyone who subscribed to our CNN 10 YouTube Channel, like the lovely   folks from southern California. Schurr High School in Montebello you rock. Much love and many blessings. Texas, you`ve been awesome. Thank you. Thank you very much. Remember, submit those vocab words and remember to put the definition in there, too, please. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10.   END     

Date: 2023-04-06
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, my friends. Happy Friday Eve. It`s Thursday. But not just any Thursday. It`s random thought Thursday. How much   dirt is in a hole that measures two inches by three inches by four inches? You think about it and I`ll tell you at the end of the show. All right, let`s get you your news now, shall we? I`m Coy Wire, this is CNN 10. And we start today with these tales of two housing markets here in the   United States. So, what`s all the hullabaloo? We`re in the spring season now, and that usually means a frenetic time for home buying. Now, during the pandemic, Silicon Valley, the West Coast cities and places like Austin saw a boom in the housing market. But now we`re seeing that   bubble burst. With continuous tech layoffs, bank failures and low housing supply, we`re seeing the home buying cooling rapidly. So, sellers in many of those areas, well, they don`t have the upper hand anymore. But on the other side of the country, on the East Coast, we`re   seeing a totally different story. Home prices are actually continuing to rise there, especially in major southeastern cities, a big impact to all of   this housing volatility is the higher average rates on a 30-year fixed mortgage, where it`s making a lot more expensive to finance a home today   compared to a year ago. The continued high inflation rate has been a contributing factor as well. Our Chief Business Correspondent, Christine Romans, explains these divergent trends we`re seeing in the U.S. housing market. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  The biggest investment most people ever make is their home. And after nine interest rate hikes   from the Fed, it`s a tale of two housing markets today in America, where the bubble appears to have popped in the West Coast tech hubs and the   pandemic boom towns but holding up rather well out east. All real estate is local, of course, but the trends are revealing Redfin measures pending home sales. Price drops and supply and found Austin, Texas   is the fastest cooling metro area in the country. It was once the pandemic relocation magnet of course, Seattle is next. Then Phoenix, Tacoma, Denver,   Vegas and four California cities round out the top 10. But head east and upper Midwest and northeast towns are cooling much more slowly, and home   price is out east still rising. Case Shiller shows home prices in these cities up year over year. They`re not skyrocketing like the last 10 years, but they`re holding in. Travel to   the southeast and it is a boom time in real estate. Miami home prices in January up nearly 14% from a year ago. Tampa up 10.5%, Atlanta, 8.4% and   Charlotte up 8.1%. You can clearly see sellers have the upper hand in the Sun Belt, a sharp contrast to the home prices in the tech hubs out west, where prices are   falling sharply, led by San Francisco, where prices fell almost 8% in January compared with last year. This is, of course, after years of runaway   price gains in those tech hubs. Call it a real estate reckoning out west, tech company pink slips, bank jitters, low inventory and mortgage rates   that have almost doubled. Higher rates make the same home a year ago a lot more expensive to finance today. A $400,000 mortgage taken out at today`s   mortgage rates would cost almost $400 more a month in the extra interest. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next up, the list of the world`s busiest airports came out. And once again, the busiest airport in the world is right here, Atlanta. According   to the Airports Council International, the U.S. actually had half of the 10 busiest airports in the world last year. Atlanta`s Hartsfield-Jackson   Atlanta International took the title for a second consecutive year as the world`s busiest airport in terms of passenger volume. Coming in second was Dallas-Fort Worth. Then it was followed by Denver, then Chicago O`Hare. Los Angeles came in 6th on the list. The other five   airports in the top 10 were cities abroad., Dubai, Istanbul, Heathrow Airport in London, New Delhi and Paris. The airport`s Council International   also expects strong travel recovery this year for global passenger traffic and a full recovery by next year that we haven`t seen since 2019. Ten second trivia. In Greek mythology, who was Apollo`s twin sister and the goddess of the moon? Artemis, Luna, Athena or Diana? Artemis is your answer here. And she also served as the goddess of the hunt and wild animals. Artemis is also connected to space exploration. And that`s where our next story takes us. It has been 50 years since astronauts returned to the moon,   but NASA just announced its team for its next moon mission. These four astronauts, three Americans and one Canadian will make their journey to outer space on Artemis 2 in November of 2024. This will also be   an historic mission as it will be the first time a woman and a person of color will be on a lunar flight. Our Ed Lavandera sat down with the newly   named crew. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Ladies and gentlemen, your Artemis 2 crew. ED LAVANDERA, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  NASA calls this moment the launch of the Artemis Generation and the space agency has unveiled its   first cosmic rock stars. Commander Reid Wiseman, Pilot Victor Glover, Mission Specialist Christina Koch and Canadian Jeremy Hansen. CNN sat down   with the crew of the Artemis 2 Mission. (On camera):  Armstrong, Aldrin, Collins, Borman, Lovell, Anders, those are all iconic astronauts that touch the moon or grace the edges of the moon.   Your names go next to those guys. How did you find out about this and how does it feel quite frankly? CHRISTINA KOCH, NASA ASTRONAUT:  The leader of our flight operations director had said to us, and he said, how would you like to go flying on   Artemis 2? My answer to him was, sir, it would be an honor. It`s amazing to be a part of this team, that`s going back to the Moon and on to Mars and   it`s exciting times that we`re actually making this step. LAVANDERA:  If all goes as planned, the Artemis 2 crew will orbit the moon next year. For about 10 days, they will aim to travel farther into space   than any humans have ever gone. They`ll fly in the Orion spacecraft, paving the way for future Artemis missions to land on the Moon again and   ultimately journey to Mars. (On camera):  I think for most people who watch space programs that since the end of the space shuttle program that space travel has become the game   of billionaires and the wealthy who travel to the edges of space. Why is this so important? VICTOR GLOVER, NASA ASTRONAUT:  One aspect of human space exploration is that it unites, and it lifts. I love, you keep using that word, Jeremy,   lifts. It lifts people up and it pushes you to do things that seem impossible. REID WISEMAN, NASA ASTRONAUT:  When you go out and do something that pushes the boundaries, you always learn things that you didn`t expect to learn.   And we will have breakthroughs left and right. It`s going to be phenomenal. LAVANDERA:  It`s been more than a half century since astronauts returned to the moon Apollo 8 astronauts were the first to see the surface up close.   Their mission and films captivated the world. The voices of astronauts beamed back to Earth, felt like science fiction. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Good luck, a Merry Christmas and God bless all of you. LAVANDERA:  Christina Koch kept this iconic image of the Earthrise taken by that first crew in 1968 on her bedroom wall as a little girl. The Artemis 2   crew is making history by putting the first person of color and a woman on a lunar mission. KOCH:  It`s an honor to be a part of this program at a time when we as an organization, as a country, have recognized and decided that it`s important   to go for all and by all. LAVANDERA:  When you see the Earth rise for the first time, have you thought about what that moment is going to be like? JEREMY HANSEN, NASA ASTRONAUT:  I think it`s going to be pretty emotional. I`m going to be seeing that image with three friends. We`re going to be in   a tiny capsule. I think there`s going to be some hugging. LAVANDERA:  Do you think in our lifetimes we will see somebody landing on Mars? HANSEN:  I do. GLOVER:  I certainly hope so. WISEMAN:  I think we will get there in our lifetime. To think that humans will be walking on Mars in 20 years is completely reasonable. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For our next story, we`re headed to Jamaica Mon, to give a 10 out of 10 to an Olympic champion sprinter that isn`t taken a single day off, not   even at our son`s sports day at school. 36-year-old Shelly-Ann Fraser- Pryce, leaving all the other parents in the dust, reminding everyone that she`s the third fastest woman of all time. Now, Fraser-Pryce`s speed has carried her to eight Olympic medals, three of them gold, as well as ten world titles.  And I actually got to interview her after she won gold at the Tokyo Summer Olympics. She told me she used to run to school every day as a kid,   barefoot because she couldn`t afford shoes. She told me she runs today to inspire all the youngsters out there, letting them know that even if you   don`t come from privilege, you can reach your greatness someday, too. All right, now, random thought Thursday question was how much dirt is in a hole that measures two inches by three inches by four inches? Well, the   answer is none, lovely people. It`s a whole great job with all of the Your Word Wednesday submissions. Thanks to Madison Westerhoff from Cashion   Oklahoma. Today`s vocabulary word was hullabaloo, a noun meaning a commotion or a fuss. Now, before I go, we want to give a special shout out Winfield, Kansas, Winfield Middle School. We see you lovely people. We`re going to be off the   air next week for spring break. But I will see you right back here tomorrow, sending you all some good vibes today. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-04-07
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. So happy to be hanging out with you on the absolute best day of the week. It`s Friday and it has been an   awesome week, sharing, learning, we had some laughs. Let`s finish this week strong.  We`re going to start today by heading to the Middle East in the country of Iraq, where a team of experts trying to piece together damaged historical   artifacts after the Islamic militant group ISIS destroyed them in the city of Mosul.  Here`s video from 2015, where the Islamic State militants were smashing and destroying ancient artifacts at the Mosul Museum. Some of these statues   were thousands of years old, all of them demolished.  The reasoning behind this was part of a campaign by this terror group to topple and dissolve any cultural history that conflicted with their extreme   beliefs and ideology. For three years, ISIS had control of Mosul, Iraq`s second largest city. But Iraqi forces, with the help of the U.S.-led   coalition, reclaimed the city in 2017 and defeated the extremist group`s rule. But the damage was already done. So for years, experts have been in   reconstruction mode, looking to restore the city`s proud history. Our Michael Holmes has more on this Mosul Museum restoration project in Iraq.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  The fragmented artifacts in the Mosul Museum have been under repair by a team of Iraqi and French restoration   experts for the past four years. They say it is a painstaking process to try to repair the shattered antiquities, a jigsaw puzzle of pieces that   might never quite fit together again.  One restorer says this is the most gratifying part, assembling and gluing the pieces.   Although some are too crushed to use, others are missing altogether.  The museum is just one of many ongoing rebuilding projects in Mosul. In March, church bells rang out again in another part of the city, part of a   UNESCO effort to rebuild churches and mosques destroyed by decades of fighting in Iraq. Since 2018, UNESCO has raised more than $105,000,000 for   reconstruction efforts in Mosul.  AUDREY AZOULAY, DIRECTOR-GENERAL, UNESCO:  Mosul is the place where UNESCO has the largest commitment today in the world because the city deserve it,   because the people of Mosul deserve it, because we know what they`ve been through and the tragedies, the intimate tragedies they`ve been through over   the last decades.  HOLMES:  Another project is taking a more modern approach to maintaining the city`s heritage. The Ion Mosul Foundation is recording videos of   witness testimonies of what life was like under ISIS rule, which will then be archived in the public library.  A common theme of the projects is to rebuild as well as remember. But the Director of the Mosul Museum says it is impossible to recreate what   happened here without any scratches or imperfections. But those two are now part of Mosul`s history.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia.  What is the name given to the second full moon in a calendar month?  Pink moon, Blue moon, Blood moon, or Harvest moon? Once in a blue moon, we get two full moons in one-month, which typically occurs once every two or three years.  Now, while we didn`t see a blue moon last night, the April pink moon was shining brightly instead, even though, despite its name, it doesn`t appear   shining pink, the bright golden orb is still something special of which to take notice in the nighttime sky. The pink moon is a nod to the bountiful   blooming flowers and trees that the spring weather brings. Our CNN Meteorologist Jennifer Gray has more on the origins of the nicknames of   moons.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JENNIFER GRAY, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Many of the Moon`s nicknames date back to the early Native Americans. They named each full moon in every month to   help them keep track of their planting and harvesting schedule.  The full moon in April is known as the Pink Moon, signaling the first appearance of the wild ground flocks, one of the earliest spring flowers.   When you have two full Moons in a calendar month, the second one is called the Blue Moon. One of the more notable Moons, the harvest moon in October,   also known as the Hunter`s Moon or the Blood Moon. This is when the leaves are falling off the trees and the animals are fat. So this signaled to   tribes it was time to hunt all they could to get them through that long winter.  And another thing to note is that the Moon does not appear pink during the pink moon, red during the blood moon, or blue during the blue moon. The   only thing that can really alter the way we see the moon is if there`s a lot of dust, haze, ash or smoke in the atmosphere, the moon can sometimes   have an orange or red glow.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For our next story, we`re going north of the border to Canada, where I`m given a 10 out of 10 to a canine romance story that`s doggone adorable.   During the pandemic, two fur babies named Rollo and Sadie met when their fur parents moved next to each other. It was love at first sight. But after   two years of bonding, times got rough when one of the owners had to move three hours away. Well, that didn`t stop these long-distance doggy   romantics from seeing each other. Our Jeanne Moos has the story of the Romeo and Juliet of the dog world.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT:  When`s the last time someone was this excited to see you after a separation? Meet Rollo and Sadie. Watch   them meet after being apart and check out their faces when they FaceTime.  This is the video that had viewers howling. Sadie, a husky and German shepherd cross, and Rollo, a Rottweiler shepherd mix, met during the   pandemic when their owners moved into different apartments in the same house in the Canadian city of Edmonton.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Sadie`s never really been the biggest fan of other dogs, but when she met Rollo, she whined and cried and laid down on her   back like she just met the love of her life.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Every time they see each other, he goes insane.  MOOS:  But then Rollo`s owner moved three hours away for a job opportunity.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  And we do FaceTime every Thursday night. So the dogs can see each other?  MOOS:  The whining, the howling. Their reunions are joyous and their owners are also best friends. They say there`s a chance they`ll all move back   under the same roof, but until then. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  That`s your buddy, isn`t it? Yeah, that`s your buddy.  MOOS:  During our remote interview, it was more sound than sight that set them off. He began looking for her, headed for the window. Rollo and Sadie   are the Romeo and Juliet of dogs. For never was a story of more woe than this of Sadie and her Rollo, parting may be such sweet sorrow, but reunions   are a ball.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Round of applause for that one. Those stories give me a little verklempt, though, because we`re going to miss you. Next week, we`re going   to be off the air because our hardworking CNN team has their much-deserved spring break.  Our final shout out this week goes to Manitowoc, Wisconsin. Manitowoc Lincoln High School, we see you, rise up.  One more thing as you chase your dreams, there are going to be people who tell you that you can`t. They`ll say you`re not good enough or it isn`t   possible. And sometimes maybe you`ll start to doubt yourself or you won`t see a clear path to your goal at times. But no matter what you`re going   through, just keep going, outwork everyone, every single day and believe in you.   You are more powerful than you know.  I`m Coy Wire. We are CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END 

Date: 2023-04-17
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello everyone, I`m Coy Wire. Thankful to be back with you this Monday, April 17, with a special edition of CNN 10. One that   reminds us that no matter our differences we have to respect and show love for one another and we must denounce hate in all its forms whenever we see   it. On the Jewish calendar tonight at sundown is the start of Yom HaShoah, or Holocaust Remembrance Day. The event commemorates the 6 million Jews who   were murdered in the Holocaust by the Nazis during World War II and celebrates the lives of those who survived. The Nazi party led by Adolf   Hitler came to power in Germany in 1933, and a core element of their ideology was anti-Semitism or hostility and prejudiced against Jewish   people.  Under Nazi rule, Jews were deprived of nearly all of their rights. They were forced from their homes sent to areas known as Ghettos, with   substandard conditions and then ultimately, to facilities all across Europe known as concentration camps. This drone video is of Auschwitz, the largest   of those concentration camps, which still stands today as a memorial and museum. The conditions in these camps were brutal and horrific. Jewish   prisoners were given little food and water were forced to work day and night. Some were deemed unfit to work and were killed immediately in   facilities intentionally made for murder.  By the end of the war, nearly two out of every three European Jews were killed as part of what Nazi Germany called the final solution. After the   concentration camps were liberated in 1945. The world vowed to never forget. We`ll hear now from one Holocaust survivor Edith Gross, who shares   her incredible story of survival with CNN. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Edith Gross is a survivor. She beat unimaginable odds, endured the horrors of the Holocaust and lived to tell her story. EDITH GROSS:  In 1944, we heard that the Nazis are coming. And I remember we went to Main Street we were watching when they came in. And they were so   tall. And their boots were so shiny. They marched into the city. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Edith was 15 years old living in occupied Czechoslovakia with her older sister and brothers. Her mother had died and   father had left for America when she was two. GROSS:  In the first week, we had to wear a yellow star. If you didn`t put it on and you were caught they killed you right away. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  As the Nazi grip on the country tightened Jews were forced into Ghettos and not allowed to run businesses. GROSS:  They decided my house, where I lived happened to fall in the ghetto so I didn`t have to move. But they put in, I don`t know, maybe two or three   families. It got so crowded, there barely was room to sleep on the floor even. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Then, they were taken to concentration camps. GROSS:  They told us pack everything you can you can carry and you have to leave everything behind. On the train the conditions was unbelievable. A   little pail was in the middle of the cattle car and that was our bathroom. And there were children. There were women. And no privacy of any sort.   There was barely room to lie down. And we went for days. It seems like for years. It was a nightmare, terrible. But finally arrived in Birkenau-  Auschwitz. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Many did not even survive the journey to the camps. GROSS:  When we arrived we did see a smoking crematorium and the smell was terrible. They said leave everything and get off. I remember lining up and   walking from the train into Auschwitz and there sat Mengele with a little stick in his hand first for women and then for men. And he directed the   people. This was went to work and this way went to the crematorium. The women were lining up. I ran over to my brother and I gave him a big hug.   And I could see his eyes. He was so frightened. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Edith managed to follow her sister to the line. She never saw her brother again. After Auschwitz, Edith and her sister were   moved to a forced labor camp. GROSS:  It was very, very hard labor. And there was a quota. And my sister always had back pain so I was very first. I was made sure that I`ve made a   quota. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  As the Russians began to close in on their location, the Nazis moved them again, this time to Stutthof concentration camp. GROSS:  Five o`clock every morning, they woke us up. We had to line up. Every time person was pushed out. And of course, we knew never to see them   again. Waking us up during the night, and watching somebody being hung. Stutthof was a very, very rough place. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Edith sister became very ill. Her condition deteriorated rapidly. GROSS:  I remember she was on the other side of electric wire and I was yelling, Dwartija (my sister`s name). I wanted a last glance because I knew   we were never going to see each other again. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The Nazis becoming desperate amidst Russian advances started forcing the Jews on so called Death Marches. GROSS:  We didn`t have any warm clothes of course, and no food, no nothing. And we started to march. People would just bend down, they were shot. If   you just did anything, or you spoke, or anything they were shot. We were walking, dead, all over dead all around us. The German, as we walked   through the towns, came out to look at the zoo animals. We looked like zoo animals, dirty. And nothing. But nobody throwed us food. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  They marched from Stutthof to Danzig, finally reaching Konigsberg, now known as Kaliningrad in Russia, where they were   liberated by Russian troops. GROSS:  Russian tanks arrived but we were very lucky because the Russians were very, very good liberators. Right away they had a hospital. Right away   there was food, although we couldn`t eat. Our stomachs were so shrunk. And they said to us, "You are liberated." UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Edith slowly made her way back to Czechoslovakia.  GROSS:  When we got to the house where we live in it was taken apart brick by brick.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  With nothing left for her in her hometown, Edith made the journey over many months to try to leave Europe. GROSS:  I didn`t want to go to America. I wanted to go to Israel. I wanted to live amongst Jews because I was so, with the antisemitism I said I have   to live with Jews. And that`s when my father was able to get in touch with me through the Red Cross. We waited eight months for the visa. In those   days it wasn`t like now. Roosevelt didn`t want the Jews to come here he displaced Jews, even after the war. So I decided I will come to America.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  So she enrolled in school and learned English. Now Edith has seven grandchildren and eight great grandchildren. Today is more   and more Holocaust survivors pass away. Edith makes it her mission to continue to tell her story. RABBI SHIMON STILLERM, CHABAD OF ISLIP TOWNSHIP:  Since she started speaking she must have reached directly a few 1000 students and community   members, residents and probably indirectly a lot more than that. She was someone who experienced the worst evil in the world. She works to bring   light to other people in her surroundings. That`s what Judaism is all about. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  She says if she only changes one mind, she`s accomplished something. GROSS:  Stop hate and take people the way they are. You know, and judge people what they are. Not by religion, not by any color. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Through the Chabad organization in the town of Islip, Long Island, a community center was dedicated in Edith`s honor. She   recently took a trip to Israel where she visited the Western Wall and Yad Vashem the Holocaust Memorial. Though it has been 80 years since that   horrible time, all that she is lost will always remain. GROSS:  When I hear holocaust survivors saving I`ll forgive and forget. No, there is no such a thing. I will never forget, forgive and definitely not   forget. (END VIDEO CLIP) END     

Date: 2023-04-18
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up lovely people. It`s Tuesday time to shine, hope you`re ready to rock and fuel your mind. I`m Coy Wire. This is   CNN 10. Let`s get informed and uplifted with the best 10 minutes in news. We`re going to start today with the latest news on the suspect in a recent   leak of classified Pentagon documents posted on social media. On Friday, in federal court in Boston, Jack Teixeira, a former airman of the   Massachusetts Air National Guard was charged under the Espionage Act for the unauthorized retention and transmission of National Defense Information   as well as the removal of classified materials. According to court documents, Teixeira worked as a low-ranking I.T. official and held top secret security clearance. He allegedly posted about   the documents online in December and shared photos of them in January. Detailed intelligence assessments were among the leaked U.S. documents. Now CNN has reviewed some of them and they contain a wide array of highly classified information such as info from eavesdropping on important allies   and adversaries as well as evaluations on the status of the Ukraine war. CNN Pentagon Correspondent Oren Liebermann has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT:  In a federal courtroom in Boston, 21-year-old, Jack Teixeira, faced his legal fate for the first time   charged through the Espionage Act with unauthorized removal and retention of classified documents and national security information. The Airman First   Class at the center of an investigation into a leak of top-secret information. In court, his father yelled out, "Love you, Jack." The response, "Love you to, Dad." UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Are you surprise by this? LIEBERMANN:  Outside the courthouse, Teixeira`s family thrust into the spotlight with national security interests at stake said nothing. Teixeira   was an I.T. specialist with the Massachusetts Air National Guard. He enlisted before graduating high school. His senior year photo had a quote   that now appears prophetic, actions speak louder than words. He`s had a top-secret clearance since 2021. And access to sensitive compartmentalized   information in a job that requires a lifetime binding nondisclosure agreement. MERRICK GARLAND, ATTORNEY GENERAL:  People who sign agreements to be able to receive classified documents acknowledge the importance to the national   security of not disclosing those documents, and we intend to send that message how important it is to our national security. LIEBERMANN:  One day earlier at one hour south, Teixeira was spotted on his back porch reading a book, moments later the FBI tactical team closed in on   Teixeira taking him into custody outside his house. On Discord, an online platform frequently used by gamers, Teixeira built his own group of friends and followers. Court documents allege that late   last year he began sharing classified information, a user in the chat group telling the FBI at first it was just paragraphs of text and then   photographs of documents that contained what appeared to be classification markings. ANDREW MCCABE, CNN SENIOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST:  The fact is, it`s quite easy to do if you are a person who has decided to violate your oath, to   violate the training and the rules that you operate under and to proactively make a decision to break the law. LIEBERMANN:  In the days before his arrest, court documents say Teixeira used his government computer to search classified intelligence reporting   for the word leak on attempt to find out if investigators were on to him. (On camera): After Teixeira`s first court appearance on Friday, he`ll have a detention hearing on Wednesday. This whole legal process it seems moving   forward very quickly. About a week from when President Joe Biden, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and others first learned about the leaks to the   arrest and the prosecution now moving forward for Jack Teixeira. Oren Liebermann, CNN at the Pentagon. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia. Where did Napoleon Bonaparte crown himself emperor of the French? Arc de Triomphe, Palace of Versailles, Champs-Elysees or Notre Dame Cathedral? Napoleon was at Notre Dame in 1804 when he took the crown from Pope Pius VII and placed it on his head by himself. Notre Dame, an 860-year-old Cathedral in Paris is one of the most iconic churches in the world, but a massive blaze in 2019 destroyed large parts of   the relic including its idyllic spire and its roof which collapsed as firefighters battled the blaze. The roof had been said to be made of a   forest because of the acres and acres worth of trees that were made into beams to build it. But Notre Dame is being rebuilt now. Let`s meet up with   CNN Senior International Correspondent Jim Bittermann in Paris to see how this majestic monument is coming along. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JIM BITTERMANN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  It was the most haunting image of a sickening afternoon. The spire of Notre Dame crashing   through the cathedral roof as flames burned all around. In the four years since as giant oaks have been felled, and the ashes cleared away, shock and   dismay has turned to confidence that the spire and the cathedral will rise again. And soon, if you believe, the general, who President Emmanuel Macron   put in charge of rebuilding the monument. GENERAL JEAN-LOUIS GEORGELIN, FRENCH ARMY GENERAL IN CHARGE OF RESTORATION: The President say we will rebuild this cathedral in five years, is the   world`s (inaudible) and reputation of France is at stake. BITTERMANN: The General wants the Chief of Staff of the French army went to visit an extraordinary woodshop in eastern France to inspect how the work   is going. Here carpenters are moving around tons of oak like children`s building blocks to rebuild the spire that collapsed as well as the rest of   the cathedrals roof beams which were destroyed in the fire, cutting and fitting, precise down to the millimeter. (On camera):  Well, much care and effort and money are being expended to make sure the reconstructed Notre Dame is just like the old one. The   workers who are working on these giant pieces of wood say they are sometimes amazed at how they could have done all this 1000 years ago. (Voice-over):  One person who`s had a better view than most of the Notre Dame reconstruction is photographer Tomas Van Houtryve. His photos are   going up along the walls of the Notre Dame worksite. He began taking pictures of the cathedral long before the fire, sometimes using an ancient   wooden camera as old as the iconic spire itself. Van Houtryve was then commissioned to document the Working side by National Geographic and the French establishment charged with the Notre Dame   restoration and preservation. As the monument slowly rose again from the ashes, he emotionally recorded the work inside and outside. TOMAS VAN HOUTRYVE, PHOTOGRAPHER:  When you`re inside Notre Dame, you feel something. It`s a place of reverence. And when you`re inside it, and you   see it and it`s damaged to stay, you feel something even more. I mean, it goes straight to your heart. BITTERMANN:  Van Houtryve has watched firsthand, as not only the damage from the fire was cleared away, but as well centuries of grime that had   accumulated before the fire. In some ways he believes the newly restored Notre Dame will be even better than what was there before. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  What would you do if you were outside having some lunch or sipping some coffee and a motorized robotic trash can just wrote up on you and   started staring at you with this little camera lens? Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is about a recent study in the streets of New York that   found while robot trash cans promoted social interaction and encouraged recycling. Some folks weren`t about it at all. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Come here, buddy. Thank you. Good job. WENDY JU, ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR, CORNELL TECH:  When we did this project, we were actually hoping to roboticized chairs and tables literally our   partners, you know, and the business improvement district said, are you kidding? It`s New York, you have to do trash. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. Oh, good boy. Oh, there you go, good boy. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It`s recycling. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh, it`s recycling. Oh, you are. You are a bad boy. You don`t know what you`re doing. Yeah, it`s OK. They`re learning. It still   helps. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: That`s creepy. That`s just freaking creepy. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yeah. ILAN MANDEL, PH.D STUDENT, CORNELL TECH: We`re not trying to sell a trash robot, we`re trying to understand how people interact with robot objects. Before we do the deployment, we watch how the people who clean the streets actually do their work. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: There you go. MANDEL: The work they do is incredibly nuanced and difficult and very unlikely to be automatable without completely restructuring the   infrastructure of the street. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What does he want? UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That cup bro. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I will give you my straw. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  What say you about robotic trash cans? Robots or no bots? I want to thank all of you who`ve subscribed and commented on our CNN 10 YouTube   channel. Our special shout out is going to Godley, Texas today. Godley High School rise up. I also want to give a special hello to Mr. Moore from David   T. Howard Middle School. It was nice meeting you at the Dogwood Festival in Atlanta last weekend. Keep crushing that tennis game and remember outwork   everyone every single day. I`ll see you tomorrow everyone. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-04-19
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up lovely people, hope you`re ready to make this a wonderful Wednesday. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. It`s also   your word Wednesday, follow me at Coy Wire on instant Snapchat and TikTok and put your unique vocabulary word in the comments section of my most   recent posts, and we`re going to choose one winner to work into tomorrow`s show. Let`s go. We start with the soon to be most populated nation in the world. You know what it is? India. India and China each actually have more than   1.4 billion people making up more than a third of the world`s population. And while China currently sits in the top spot population, experts predict   that India will soon surpass them if it hasn`t already happened. China has been the most populous country since at least 1950. The year that the   United Nations began collecting population data. But families in China have been having fewer children and there have been more deaths there each year   than births. That could mean that in the coming years, China might face challenges supporting its aging population due to a declining working age   population. In India, however, there is a younger population and there are higher national fertility rates and a decrease in infant mortality. These are some   of the factors that have contributed to population growth. Experts are having a difficult time making a clear projection on exactly when India`s   population might overtake China`s in part because China had a recent census in 2020 while India`s last census was 2011. Let`s learn more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VEDIKA SUD, CNN REPORTER:  India`s birth rate has slowed, but the country is still quickly adding to its 1.4 billion strong population. (On camera): According to UNICEF, more than 67,300 babies are born in India every day. That`s 1/6 of the world`s wealth counts daily. (Voice-over): Already more than half of all Indians are under the age of 30. That means a huge potential to grow the national economy, but education   and investment need to keep up if there are going to be jobs for a new generation. India`s new global title will mean little if it doesn`t come   with fresh opportunity. Vedika Sud, CNN, New Delhi. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next, we`re headed to the west coast where Mother Nature has brought about the return of a massive lake which hadn`t existed for generations,   California`s Central Valley has been overwhelmed with rain which has flooded hundreds of square miles of farmland, ruining crops and   livelihoods. And the scary part is it could get worse. CNN`s Chief Climate Correspondent Bill Weir reminds us that water never forgets. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT:  In California Central Valley farmers have spent much of the last 20 years praying for rain. But then   came this winter of relentless rivers in the sky, enough to bring a long dead lake back to life and drought over 150 square miles of farmland and   counting. So now, they pray for the water to stop. (On camera): It is mind blowing to realize that if you`d stood here for the last couple of generations, he`d be watching the sunset over dusty fields   of cotton or alfalfa or pistachio trees. And now it is waterfront property. I had no idea Tulare Lake was once the biggest freshwater body west of the   Mississippi, but it was dammed and dived and drained to build a $2 billion agriculture industry. And now it`s back. It`s proof that water never   forgets. And this may just be the beginning because behind those clouds over there, the Sierra Nevadas are so packed with snow, 260% above normal,   and sooner or later that`s going to melt which is only going to make this flooding worse and last longer. The last time it flooded this dramatically   here was 1983 and it took two years to dry out. You were telling me about the effects in `83? SIDONIO PALMERIN, COUNCIL MEMBER, CITY OF CORCORAN: Yes. WEIR:  The town hollowed out pretty much?   PALMERIN:  Yes.  I was in a school board at that time in 1983 and we lost half our school population. About 1/3 of our city`s population and a lot of   the people that were fewer workers lost their homes or cars. WEIR:  And this time, in addition to the dripping time bomb in the mountains, Corcoran has many feet lower in elevation. After years of over   pumping groundwater to grow thirstier crops, made this one of the fastest sinking areas in the nation. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The levee that we`re standing on is called the Corcoran levee. It`s a 14.5-mile levee that protects the city of Corcoran, the two   state prisons. The residents here are about 22,000 residents and about 8000 inmates. And so, the work behind us that you`ll see over here with the   tractor work in the distance. They`re actually building the levee up another four to five feet. God willing, that`ll protect the city of   Corcoran. WEIR:  There`s a race against the melt. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  That`s exactly right. WEIR:  Basically happened, right? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  So, we`ve been fortunate with a very slow, mild spring so far, but we know the heats coming. MARTINA SEALY, CORCORAN RESIDENT:  All of the crops are completely flooded and ruined. So that it takes a lot of jobs from people. That`s a lot of   foods that provide -- we provide for, now California and all around the nation. It`s pretty scary. WEIR:  And unfortunately, this is just the beginning, right? Because -- SEALY:  Very beginning. WEIR:  The big melt hasn`t even really begun? SEALY:  Yes, this is just from the rain. This no mounts, there`s nowhere for it to go besides, here, you know? WEIR:  So, Tulare Lake is back for a while? SEALY:  Yeah. It`s back and it may take over and put us out. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  10 second trivia. What planet is closest to Earth when it passes by? Mercury, Venus, Mars or Jupiter? WIRE:  It might not be the closest on average, but Venus`s orbit brings it closer to Earth than any other planet. Next up, the launch of the most powerful rocket ever built, its name starship. SpaceX is now targeting Thursday for the next attempt to launch   the rocket. The first launch attempt scheduled for Monday was delayed due to a technical issue. SpaceX CEO Elon Musk says the starship is key to his   mission of getting the first humans to Mars. CNN Senior National Correspondent Ed Lavandera has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ED LAVANDERA, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  The SpaceX starship is the most powerful rocket ever built. It`s 400 feet tall. The super heavy booster is   packed with 33 engines, and it will attempt to push the uncrewed starship spacecraft which sits on top of the rocket booster into space. If the   rocket launches properly, the spacecraft will separate less than three minutes into the flight and travel east from South Texas and go much of the   way around the earth before splashing into the Pacific Ocean near Hawaii. But hours before this scheduled launch SpaceX founder Elon Musk worked to   lower expectations to the point that he seemed to be bracing for catastrophic failure. ELON MUSK, SPACEX FOUNDER & CEO:  Success is not what should be expected. That would be insane. This vehicle could make it all the way to little bit   or it may blow up on the pad. There`s a million ways this rocker could fail. LAVANDERA:  SpaceX has waited more than a year for the final government clearance to launch this rocket. The starship rocket system is the   centerpiece of Musk goal of commercial space travel to the moon and beyond, to Mars. It comes two weeks after NASA unveiled the four astronauts who   will fly around the moon next year as part of the Space Agency`s Artemis Mission. NASA has awarded SpaceX contracts and options of more than $3   billion dollars to use starship to ferry future Artemis astronauts to the moon and NASA Artemis 2 commander Reid Wiseman spoke with CNN about the   importance of this partnership for humans to eventually reach Mars. REID WISEMAN, NASA ASTRONAUT:  I think we will get there. The amount of private-public partnerships going on SpaceX is building our lander for the   moon. They`re working on starship right now. We have commercial space is just doing amazing things right now. So, to think that humans will be   walking on Mars in 20 years is completely reasonable. LAVANDERA:  Testing on this rocket system started several years ago, and it`s resulted in many breakthroughs. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Two, one, ignition, abort. LAVANDERA:  But also, some explosive setbacks. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, some creative students from the Colorado School of Mines, a research university focused on science and   engineering. It`s the annual cardboard boat race in Golden Colorado where these creative students devise a master plan to build the fastest baldest   boat using only cardboard and some duct tape. It`s wild. It`s wacky, it`s slippery. Watch out lady. Now, some of these boats are tricked out to check out the dragon head on this one. These students are competitive and as one of them says. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We`re nerds that like the party. WIRE:  Loads of spectators cheering them on as they race on their raft and hope to make it past the rapids. But when they don`t, it`s nothing to feel   bad a boat. This is the best cardboard sport I`ve seen since boxing. Heyo, time for my favorite part of the day. Now, I want to give a special shout out to Wilmington, Delaware, Delaware Military Academy, we see you.   Fun fact, Delaware is the second smallest state but outranks five states in terms of population, including Alaska, which is the largest state in the   United States. Thanks for watching everyone. We hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-04-20
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello everyone. It`s Coy Wire. Welcome to a new look Thursday. Or as I like to say, happy Friday eve. We are almost to the   end of the week, so let`s lock in and finish this week strong. The best 10 minutes of news starts right now.  We begin our journey today by traveling to the Sudan Africa, where a conflict is currently taking place between two groups. One is the Sudanese   Armed forces. The other is the Rapid Support Forces, or RSF, which is a paramilitary group.  Not long ago, the commanders of these two factions were partners. In 2019, they worked together to overthrow Sudan`s dictator Omar al-Bashir, who   ruled the country for three decades. Afterwards, the two groups worked together to share power until now.  The conflicts between the two groups erupted this month after failed negotiations over integrating the groups and the distribution of power   between the generals. Now, the RSF is attempting to capture the army headquarters, leading to intense clashes and significant loss of life.  Many hospitals are also not open despite the urgent requirement for medical aid. Since the fighting started, nearly 300 people have been killed, more   than 3,000 injured. Despite calls for a truce during continuous fighting for five days, the violence has not stopped.  Several countries are attempting to evacuate their citizens, but closed airports have hindered those efforts, resulting in very little success.   More now from CNN International Correspondent Larry Madowo.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LARRY MADOWO, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Two generals at war. Since Saturday, the forces of General Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, known as a Rapid   Support Forces paramilitary group, or RSF, have been locked in battle with the Sudanese Army lead by General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan. The fighting comes as Sudan tries to finalize a deal to return to civilian rule after two military coups in recent years which temporarily united the   army and the RSF. In a phone interview, Dagalo, who is better known as Hemeti told me ruling Sudan isn`t his endgame.  (On camera): What do you personally want from this situation, General Hamdan? Do you want to lead the army? Do you want to be the chief? GENERAL MOHAMED HAMDAN DAGALO, LEADER OF PARAMILITARY RAID SUPPORTER FORCES (through translator):  I don`t want to be the leader of the army. There`s a   framework agreement between all the Sudanese stakeholders that should be adhered to. I don`t want to lead anything. These are all propaganda they   are making.  MADOWO:  As part of the agreement, the RSF, some 100,000 strong, would merge with the army, but differences over how long that would take and who   would end up with more power aggravated tensions between the two factions, which have since erupted into open warfare. Residential areas across Sudan have become battlefields with antiaircraft weapons in the streets and warplanes hovering overhead.  (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) COREY ADKINS, GREAT LAKES SHIPWRECK HISTORICAL SOCIETY:  When you find a ship that hasn`t been seen in about 109 years, that`s quite exciting. It   helps us put the story together for history. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Well, look what we have here. The Stanley Cup, it`s the championship trophy awarded each year to the winner of the National Hockey League. The   trophy itself is the oldest trophy still competed for in North America.  And unlike other major sports that make a new trophy each year, this one is one of a kind. And players on the winning team, they get their names   engraved on the trophy. But just like your English papers, there are a few mistakes.  Over the years, several players and teams have been spelled incorrectly on the cup. Oops. But some fans say this actually adds to the authenticity of   the trophy. Try using that excuse in English class. Now, that`s random.  Now come along with me and meet one of our CNN heroes, Dr. Kwane Stewart, a veterinarian who founded a nonprofit called Project Street Vet. It helps to   provide medical care to the pets of people experiencing homelessness.  As part of his mission, Dr. Stewart has provided free treatment to thousands of pets living in the streets. We`ll hear what inspired him to   grow his mission and about his personal journey to become a vet.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DR. KWANE STEWART, PROJECT STREET VET:  I`ve seen people give up their last meal for their pet and people who have $3 for their name. And after I`m   done with the treatment, they will try and give me that $3.  This is your partner? Obviously. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It`s my best friend.  STEWART:  I can treat about 80 percent of the cases I see out of a really small bag.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Well, you do vaccines, too?  STEWART:  We do vaccines? She needed them.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Oh, that`s really cool.  STEWART:  It`s antibiotics. It`s anti-inflammatories, flea and tick heartworm prevention. It`s all there.  Let me take a listen here.  It doesn`t matter what your situation is or what your back runner past is. I see a pet in need, and I see a person who cares for them dearly, who just   needs some help.  I`m going to do it right here. It`s at no cost to them. It`s free. That`s it, buddy.  I`ve been carrying this dream since I was seven. And it was that movie The Black Stallion that did it for me, seeing that majestic black horse and the   relationship with the boy. And I remember walking out holding my mom`s hand. I said, when I grow up, I want to be an animal doctor. The moment I   graduated vet school and got my first job, it was great. Finally climbed the mountain, seeing animals every day, learning new things.  I was Chief Medical Officer of a regional national chain. But then I went into shelter medicine. I moved from Southern California up to Northern   California to take that job. And a lot of people are just trying to survive.  That was the cold water in the face wake up call. Guys are so cute. It was during the recession, so I`m seeing hordes of unwanted pets dropped off,   people who don`t have the money to feed them or care for them medically. I started getting a little despondent and depressed.  One day in particular, I just thought about leaving the veterinary professional together. On this day, I stopped in at 711. As I was walking   out with my coffee, I looked to my left, and I saw an unhoused gentleman with his dog. I`d seen this guy before, regrettably just walked by him. And   on this day, I just broke pattern because I noticed his dog. And this dog looked like a burn victim, looked like a flea problem. Fleas can just   destroy the skin.  I said, I`ll be back tomorrow with something that I think will help. I returned his promise. It was $3 out of my pocket. Five more minutes of my   time, and the dog was just transformed. That was the moment. That`s when I said to myself, I`m going to do more of this. I`m going to get back to   saving animals on my terms, and I`m going to do it for passion, not for pay. It was a feeling I`d never had before.  I`m building a network of trusted volunteers, technicians, but hospitals and clinics we can go to, we can call on.  Everything looks OK.  But spreading across the country. And I have teams popping up in Orlando and Atlanta, D.C.  She`s beautiful.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Yes. STEWART:  You know, that`s the dream now. Street vet team in every major urban center in the country.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is BMX athlete Kriss Kyle, who had a sky-high dream of creating a skate park 2,000 feet in the air by   hanging it from one of the world`s largest hot air balloons. Here`s Kriss. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) KRISS KYLE, BMX RIDER:  Members daydreaming looking out at the sky, and I was like, oh, my God. Imagine just floating, a skate park in the sky. And   then I put it down in my notes, my phone, got home, sketched up some stick men, and sent it to my red bull manager. Yeah. So the whole thing took   around three years from start to finish.  It was long, and to be honest I thought it`d be easy. I thought it was just going to be literally tying the bull to the hot air balloon and just   floating up and it`d be easy, but I quickly realized that it was a lot harder than what I could ever expected.  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Now, the project took three years to master from start to finish, but he pulled it off, and he was able to pull off stunts like this on a   bike way high up in the sky. Kriss` training for this was intense, but the biggest challenge, he says, was conquering his own fear.  Imagine how discombobulated you`d probably feel doing all those twists and turns while your stomach is probably twisting and turning all in its own   right. This 10 out of 10 is a great reminder, whenever you`re chasing a goal and feeling a psychological barrier, just keep pedaling, even if   you`re wheelie scared.  We had some great your word Wednesday submissions yesterday. Thanks to today`s winner @bucksburgundy (ph) from Auburn, New York for   discombobulated. Did you hear it in the show? It`s an adjective meaning confused. Well done.  Our special shout out today is going to Vernon, New Jersey, Vernon Township High School, go Vikings. Horns up and horns forward. Remember, happiness   isn`t some ideal we have to chase or find or create. Happiness is right here, right now, whenever we choose to embrace it. Much love, many   blessings.  I`m Coy Wire. We are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-04-21
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, sunshine? Happy Friday. Let`s unleash our full potential. Take great energy, good vibes, and lots of love into   this weekend and make it a feel, good Friday. Remember, what`s within influences, what happens without.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we start with fishermen in Japan. Bracing after the government`s recent decision to gradually release more than a   million tons of filtered wastewater from a toxic nuclear power plant into the Pacific Ocean. The government says it`s necessary.  In the Fukushima Prefecture in 2011, a disastrous earthquake and tsunami followed by a nuclear meltdown, devastated this region of Japan. Dangerous   radioactive particles from the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant contaminated the environment as radiation seeped into the sea, leading   authorities to prohibit fishing in several regions off the coast of Japan for more than a year. These areas had previously supplied 50 percent of the   country`s fish.  Even after the ban was lifted, though, Fukushima based fishermen were mostly limited to collecting only samples for radioactivity tests. Now,   more than a decade later, the ocean currents have dispersed the contaminated water, and radioactivity is undetectable. Many felt the   nightmare was over, but now some fishermen who make a living in this region say they feel betrayed. And safe or not, dumping contaminated water into   the ocean will be devastating to their reputations and livelihoods. CNN Correspondent Marc Stewart has more.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MARC STEWART, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: It`s just after 9:00 in the morning. The crew of this ship is back in port at the Ohama Fishing Village   in Fukushima, Japan. Kinzaburo Shiga is a third-generation fisherman starting in elementary school, going on trips with his father.  He told me he`s happy on the boat, but he faces challenges. His catch is tested for radiation. That`s because the port is around 40 miles from the   Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant. In 2011, there was a meltdown here after a catastrophic earthquake and tsunami.  For six years, he couldn`t fix fish, told to stay off the water. When he heard he couldn`t fish, he was sad, disappointed. The ocean was off limits.  (On camera): Twelve years later, fishermen face yet another challenge. Treated wastewater that accumulated inside the plant will soon be released   into the ocean, a threat to their reputation and way of life.  (Voice-over): He says the decision made his blood boil. He wonders why the government made the decision without the consent of the fishermen.  At the time, the Prime Minister said it had to be done to decommission the plant. We wanted to see the plant for ourselves, and we were allowed to   after agreeing to a strict safety protocol.  (On camera): This is as close as we can get to reactors one through four. The cleanup worked here will take at least 20 more years.  (Voice-over): We also saw a lab where fish are tested and lots of construction on the water treatment facility.  (On camera): Let me show you the tanks behind me, row after row, enough to fill about 500 Olympic swimming pools. The treated water will be let go   gradually through a tunnel that will take it offshore and then eventually into the ocean.  (Voice-over): According to the plant`s operator, Tokyo Electric Power Company, the water has been treated by taking out most of the radioactive   particles. It`s then diluted with seawater, taking it to a level much lower than the World Health Organization`s clean drinking water standard.  And official from the utility told us he recognizes there`s distrust because of the past, but they`re listening to concerns. He knows not   everyone will accept their plan, but points out the support they`re getting from third parties such as the International Atomic Energy Agency. Still,   neighboring countries have expressed concern.  (On camera): Is there a public health risk by releasing this water?  IAN FAIRLIE, INDEPENDENT CONSULTANT ON RADIOACTIVITY IN THE ENVIRONMENT: Yes, there is a public health risk. And it`s relatively low, but the risk   exists. I think that they should store the water so that it decays naturally.  STEWART (on camera):  While other options were considered, this was seen as the best plan as tanks near capacity. Japan`s Pacific coast has been a   point of pride and promise for fishermen like Kinzaburo.  He says he doesn`t know what will happen, but hopes leaders won`t work against the fishermen. The water release is expected to begin by the   summer, bringing with it more years of anxiety and uncertainty.  (On camera): Despite everything that has happened, Japan still views nuclear power as part of its future. It`s seen as a way to be energy   independent. It`s viewed as a greener energy source. And then on the topic of safety, the prime minister feels the next generation of plants will be   safer.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia.  Which of these U.S. cities was named after the original capital of ancient Egypt?  Nashville, Memphis, Knoxville, or Chattanooga? Most of the pyramids found near Cairo are located in what was Memphis, the first capital of ancient Egypt.  Come on with me now so we can put the umm in Memphis, Tennessee for today`s story getting a 10 out of 10. Now, all of you, my dear friends, you know by now that I try to eat healthy most of the time. I love fitness, but sometimes I just feel like fitness   entire burger into my mouth. Dyer`s Burgers in Memphis, they say that they have the world-famous burger and the secret is floating it in grease.   That`s more than 100 years old. Go figure.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) KENDALL ROBERTSON, OWNER, DYER`S BURGERS: Grease is seasoned and filtered every day, but it still has molecules from 1912 in the grease.  I`m Kendall Robertson, the owner of world-famous Dyer`s on Beale in Memphis, Tennessee. We`re famous for our grease. We cook all our burgers in   grease. We season it filtered all the time, but it`s still the same original grease.  Elmer "Doc" Dyer created Dyers in 1912 when it was on Cleveland Street in Memphis. The story goes that one day one of his employees forgot to empty   out the frying pan the night before. He opened up and quickly got customers in and just started cooking burgers in the pan that had grease in it from   the night before. And the customers were like, this is the best burger I`ve ever had in my life. And so Dyers was born. Dyers isn`t like any other   restaurant. We have no grill. We have no flat top. We just have a skillet full of grease.  LYRIC CRAWFORD, AKA "THE BURGER G", COOK, DYER`S BURGERS: My name is Lyric, also known as the Burger guy. I`ll show you guys how to make a Dyer`s   burger. We ball the meat up into a little ball and we`re going to use a wooden mallet. And a steel spatula to flatten them out.  The spatula is covered with grease, so that way the patty won`t stick. All cooked the same. There`s no medium, medium rare, any of that. They`re all   well done. And when they float, they`re done. See how it`s floating right here. Every bun comes with mustard, pickle and onion. Also black pepper at   the bottom of it. That is the traditional Dyers burger. Dyers has a special seasoning, but I cannot tell you what that is.  And here comes the magic pan. This is what everyone comes to love to watch. As you can see, we`ll put the cheese on top, make sure it gets good and   gooey and melted. Gives it like a very buttery flavor when you bite into it. And then it`s your first Dyer`s burger. When you bite into it it`s   everything you`ve ever wanted in a hamburger. It`s very simple, easy, quick. I`ve never had anybody try Dyer`s burger that didn`t truly love it.  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  You all are the only buns for me. We`re sending a special shout out to Laguna Hills, California New Vista School. What`s up, lovely people.   Thank you for taking the time to subscribe and comment on our CNN 10 YouTube Channel. And to those Mavericks from Mrs. Walton`s class at Marvin   Ridge Middle School in North Carolina. Rise up, keep shining bright y`all. Go on out and make someone smile today. Remember, you are more powerful   than you know.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2023-04-24
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Time for motivation Monday. Have you ever heard of the story of the Chinese bamboo tree? Seed is planted and   nothing happens for almost five years. After lots of watering and care, though, something amazing happens. It shoots up about 90 feet in five   weeks, about three feet per day. So whenever you feel like you`re not seeing any progress, just keep pushing, keep believing, and something   magical just might happen.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we start with the ongoing conflict in Sudan, Africa. On Saturday, President Joe Biden said that the United States   government personnel and their families had been evacuated from the U.S. Embassy in Khartoum. The clashes between rival military groups there have   become way too dangerous. So according to Defense Department officials, a group of more than 100 special operations forces made a fast and clean   extraction, pulling out around 100 people from the war-torn country.  Battles between the Sudanese Armed Forces and the Rapid Support Forces, or RSF, erupted earlier this month after failed negotiations in integrating   the groups and over the distribution of power between the generals.  The World Health Organization reported Friday that 413 people had been killed, thousands more injured. U.S. officials say they`ll continue efforts   to bring an end to the violence and work to extend the ceasefire to which both sides agreed during a religious holiday, though there are reports that   the fighting still continued during that time. CNN`s Oren Liebermann has more.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT:  A successful mission carried out in the dark of night in Sudan to evacuate the U.S. embassy in Khartoum.   According to U.S. officials, three Chinook helicopters took off from Djibouti some 750 or 800 miles away from Khartoum, flew into the country,   landed, secured the embassy, and then brought out all of the embassy`s staff and their family members, a group of just under a hundred people.   U.S. officials said they do hope there`s an opportunity here, a ceasefire that holds a resolution between the two warring parties there, and an   opportunity to reopen the embassy. But that is an enormous question as the fighting there enters its second week.  The U.S. was looking for a window of opportunity, a ceasefire that holds essentially, to be able to evacuate the embassy itself. And the weekend   brought that opportunity with the Eid al-Fitr Holiday. The two warring parties committed to the ceasefire, even though there were reports of   violations of that ceasefire.  Now, a large question, what about all the U.S. nationals, the private citizens who remain in the country? And there are thousands of them. Oren   Liebermann, CNN, at the Pentagon.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia.  Which of these locations in the Florida Keys translates to "purple island"? Key Largo, Key West, Islamorada, or Marathon? Islamorada is your answer here. It means purple island in Spanish. And this place is known as the   Sportfishing Capital of the World. Healthy coral reefs are essential to a healthy marine ecosystem. Well, after watching coral reefs disappear over the 20 years he lived in Florida,   one man decided he wanted to build them back.  But he knew he couldn`t do it alone. So he co-founded I.CARE. and recruited other divers to help rebuild reefs in Florida one coral at a time. Meet   Mike Goldberg, one of our CNN heroes.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MIKE GOLDBERG, CO-FOUNDED I.CARE:  I love being underwater. The minute you go diving, the fish are right in your face. The interaction with that   marine life is unlike anything I`d ever experienced. You`re close up in person with all the animals, all the fish, the lobster, the crustaceans.  The Keys, in general, the ocean, the coral reef, the marine life used to be the best anywhere. The thriving coral reef is incredibly biodiverse.   Multiple species coral, multiple species of fish, invertebrates, all living happily together. It`s kind of buzzing when you get down there. There`s so   much activity.  I can tell you what a dying and struggling reef looks like easily because it`s what I see most of the time now. Due to the water quality issues,   rising temperature, acidification attracts algae. And then in 2014, there was something we called stony coral tissue loss disease as incredibly   virulent. Once you lose the coral, there`s nothing there. It`s a literal underwater desert.  Good morning. You ready for the afternoon?  DR. KYLIE SMITH, CO-FOUNDED I.CARE:  Yeah. You got 14.  GOLDBERG:  Cool. Let me go get the tanks off the whip and we`ll get them out to the boat.  When I got out of university, I started working in the financial services industry. I was chasing money the whole time. It just wasn`t true to my   core. So in 2004 we moved to Islamorada here in the Florida Keys and opened up a dive shop. You we`ve lost so much coral since I moved here 20 years   ago. It truly is a pretty devastating number. What I saw here was so sad that I just wasn`t sure how to solve the problem. I`m just one guy who`s   watched all of this loss. But then he said, you know what? I`m going to do something. I`m going to try something. It`s not in me to walk away. It   wasn`t in me to just leave it to someone else to do.  Our organization, I.CARE, focuses on the rebuilding of the coral reefs here in the Florida Keys.  SMITH:  You can see over on the side here. All that`s new growth, they like to grow.  GOLDBERG:  Dr. Smith, my co-founder, is a brilliant scientist. Without her, none of this happens.  (On camera):  It`s amazing how fast this coral is growing.  (Voice-over):  Our goal is to make our reef self-sustaining and that it requires putting down resilient core. So what we do is we`ll take multiples   of that small piece of core, put them close together on a dead coral head, they fuse. And once they fuse, they`re now large enough to spawn in five to   seven years.  (On camera):  So we are speeding up that process. The coral reefs absolutely need human intervention to help. There is no way that this reef   is going to bounce back all on its own.  (Voice-over):  I knew the only way that I could make it work is through the power of the recreational dive community. I`m not a scientist, but what I   can do is tell the world of divers that are out there. Let`s band together.  Any certified diver with recent dive skill is able to come out with us and plant coral.  SMITH:  If you guys didn`t know, a coral is indeed an animal.  GOLDBERG:  A new diver to I.CARE will start the day with a coral workshop. They will learn why we`re doing what we`re doing. They`ll learn the history   of the reef, coral morphology, the science behind the corals.  They will have a hands-on workshop where they actually put coral in their hands that was once living. Learn how to attach it.  SMITH:  That looks great. Welcome to Mote`s nursery.  GOLDBERG:  And they get a tour of the coral nursery here on shore.  SMITH:  Here is some fancy elkhorn. So critically endangered, right?  GOLDBERG:  What a beautiful thing. Oh, my God.  And they get to go out and plant coral. The great reward for me is to see the corals that we put down. That`s the fruit of our labor. We`re seeing it   work. Anyone could have done this. And why isn`t everyone taking up arms? It`s simple. It`s not complicated.  I`m happy that I get to be part of something that is maybe a solution. I wake up every day and say, look what I get to do.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Prom season is in the air, and some promposals are getting to be a pretty big deal. So today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is about a   creative kid from Parkview High School in Orfordville, Wisconsin. Ryan Hazeltine wanted to ask his girlfriend to prom in a big way, so he used a   big canvas using a tractor and a disc.  He spelled out prom? on his family`s farm. And he didn`t use a protractor to make those perfect letters or any other kind of measurements. He just   eyeballed it. He used a drone to virtually fly his girlfriend Abby Anderson, way up for a bird`s eye view. And it was an easy yes for Abby.  Now, if you`re getting nervous about your promposal, don`t worry. Just keep prom and carry on.  Special shout out to Atlanta, Georgia today GLOBE Academy. We see you. Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube Channel. I`m so   grateful to be right here with you today. Let`s get the good vibes flowing. Dig in and dig deep and make this a great start to the week.  I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-04-25
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. It is a terrific Tuesday and a perfect day to show some love and give a shout out to our teachers.   Go on and dap up your teach. Give them a handshake or a high five. Let them know you appreciate them.  Teachers, keep up lifting, informing, and inspiring hiring. We are grateful for all you do. I`m Coy Wire. You are awesome. This is CNN 10, the best ten   minutes in news.  We start in Argentina, a vibrant country in South America, known for stunning natural landscapes, being home to tango dancing, gauchos, the   World Cup soccer chance, and vibrant city life in Buenos Aires, the capital.  It`s the world`s 8th largest country, covering a huge portion of southern South America. But now Argentina`s economy is on the edge of a crisis. Due   to recession caused by a drought and growing inflation, the costs of many goods in Argentina have more than doubled what they were last year.  It`s the first time that this has happened in three decades. Food and drink are among the items that were the most expensive. Citizens in Argentina are   finding it very difficult to live on their salaries and to save money for their futures. They`re taking to the streets to protest the government,   which they say isn`t doing enough to curb inflation and help its citizens.  But while the government is acknowledging problems, they`re also pointing to recent job growth as a good sign. This all comes in the lead up to an   election in October.  Up next, CNN`s Rafael Romo will break down the economic situation in Argentina number by number. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RAFAEL ROMO, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Holding torches and banners, they march down some of the most iconic streets of downtown Buenos Aires, the capital   of Argentina. The march, organized by worker unions is the latest in a series of antigovernment protests.  Workers like Sylvia Sarabia (ph) say the government is not doing enough to alleviate a galloping yearly inflation that reached 104%, the second   highest in Latin America after Venezuela`s 501%.  Those who have a formal job get wages under the poverty line, she says. That`s why these protests are so big.  Workers say the government of Argentina is taking money from the working class to pay the International Monetary Fund. President Alberto Fernandez   admitted there are problems to be solved, but pointed to 30 months of job growth in the country.  Last month, Argentina reworked a $44 billion loan with the IMF, obtaining nearly 10 billion in fresh cash in exchange for measures to strengthen   public finances and start reducing persistently high inflation.  President Fernandez is calling for unity, asking his fellow Argentines to please look towards the future. He says his finance minister is working on   the issues and blamed some of the problems on the country`s drought.  But for many people in Argentina, it`s hard to have that kind of optimism when they don`t even know if the next paycheck is going to allow them to   make ends meet.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. What is the city with the most fountains in the world?  St. Petersburg, Russia, Rome, Italy, Florence, Italy or New York, New York?  Italy, no city on the planet has as many fountains as Rome, where you`ll find more than 2000 of them.  Up next, a story about trying something new with something very, very old. Thousands of objects not making it into the Colosseum`s new museum. They`re   now on full display. The Colosseum, the ancient Roman amphitheater in the center of the city best known for gladiator games, first opened in the year   80 A.D. Now its storage facilities full of artifacts are open to visitors at tiny museums all around the city. Let`s go.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) BARBIE LATZA NADEAU, CNN CONTRIBUTOR:  Under the shadow of the Roman Colosseum, millions of people immerse themselves in ancient Roman history   each year. Here in Rome, museum curators are spoiled for choice. What do you do with 500 Roman era coins?  With limited space in the site`s new museum, the Colosseum is trying a new hands-on approach. Warehouses and storage facilities brimming with   artifacts are currently open to visitors. These former shops and market stalls have been converted into temporary museum space to hold the leftover   artifacts that didn`t quite fit into a new museum that opened in 2021.  Until the end of July eight visitors at a time can reserve a special tour, guided by an archaeologist, who will let them hold these important   historical finds. Many of which have not been on display in 30 years.  In this way, the people have direct contact with the ancient culture and materials archaeologist Roberta Alteri says. After that, their fate is   unknown. The popular pieces will upgrade to the Museum, and the rest will go back to collecting dust in the warehouse.  Alfonsina Russo, the Director of the Colosseum Archaeological Park, says she hopes the project gives people a better understanding of daily life in   ancient Romero.  ALFONSINA RUSSO, DIRECTOR OF COLOSSEUM ARCHEOLOGICAL PARK (through translator):  These artifacts tell the story of daily life, how they   carried out activities, and above all, to bring these objects that would otherwise have remained hidden in our warehouses.  LATZA NADEAU:  She also hopes other historical sites open up their warehouses to let people see all history has to offer and to bring the past   into focus. Barbie Latza Nadeau, CNN, Rome.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Up next, engineer and entrepreneur Dhruv Boruah is developing a submarine that can filter microplastics out of the ocean. The goal replace   sea vessels that emit carbon with a fleet of plastic filtering submarines that don`t have emissions and are better for the environment. It`s part of   our Call to Earth series. Let`s join Dhruv for his first sea trial in Miami.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Dhruv Boruah is on a mission to rid plastic from the ocean. It`s a problem the engineer first became aware of during a yachting   race across the Atlantic. Since then, Dhruv has dedicated himself to raising awareness of the issue by cycling down waterways in the world`s   largest cities.  DHRUV BORUAH, FOUNDER & CEO, OCEANWAYS:  Do you like the bike?  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Now he is starting to think about the bigger picture.  BORUAH:  So we`re collecting rubbish as well, so you can see loads of them on the underwater. Yeah.  (On camera):  I had reached around 300 million people worldwide. But a question here I ask myself every day where is the tangible impact? Where is   the scale we are talking about? Because riding on a bicycle is so much you can do. So this project is all about restoring the ocean with microplastic   collection, taking action around ocean acidification and everything else. But we start with microplastics and other data sensors.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Putting his engineering background to work, Dhruv started Oceanways, a company set on building a fleet of zero emission   submarines that can carry cargo, replacing other carbon emitting vessels, while also filtering my microplastics from the water. Here in Biscayne Bay   in Miami, Dhruv and his team are taking the new prototype out for its first sea trial.  BORUAH:  The water comes into the pipe, goes here. This is a filtration system. It comes out here, and we will collect everything here.  Then here we have got some sensors to collect ocean data. Behavior of the vehicle in the water today that we have collected a lot of data. Hopefully   you can fit them into the simulator to learn what`s going on here. Disconnected.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Ultimately, the ambition is to use fuel cells that draw hydrogen from the ocean to power the submarines to travel   autonomously.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And for today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, please bear with me on a beautiful day in Asheville, North Carolina, a barefooted man was   chilling in his chair on his back porch until bear. David Oppenheimer could barely contain his emotions freezing like frozen. Just him and a black bear   locked in a stare.  Thankfully, the bear seemed to be just as scared as David. I don`t want to be the bearer of bad news, but this could have turned out really badly.   Instead, it gives us a pretty hilarious moment.  All right, time for our shout out of the day. Klamath Falls, Oregon, Ponderosa Middle School. We see you. Thanks. For all the love.  Before I go, can y`all please help me out with something? I`m trying to be better about posting on social media. But there are so many of these   special abbreviations to keep up with, like L-O-L. I know that means laugh out loud. But I keep seeing people use the letters IDK, and every time I   ask someone what it means, they say, I don`t know. So please hit me up @Coywire on Insta, Snapchat and TikTok. And let me know.  See you tomorrow, lovely people. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-04-26
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Welcome to CNN 10. Wonderful Wednesday to you. I`m so grateful to be right back with you for another   great day of CNN 10. We have a fantastic show for you. All the news you need to know in 10 minutes. It`s also your word Wednesday. Follow me @coywire on Instagram, Snapchat and TikTok and put your unique vocabulary word in the comments section of   my most recent post. And we`re going to choose one winner to work into tomorrow`s show. Let`s go. We`re going to start with the latest news on politics. Yesterday, U.S. President Joe Biden formally announced that he`s running for   reelection in 2024. The announcement came on the four-year anniversary of when he declared his current run for the White House in 2019. While seeking reelection is expected for most first term presidents, that hasn`t always been the case for President Biden, and both Republicans and   Democrats have expressed concern over Biden`s age. He would be 86 years old by the end of his second term should he be reelected. That would make him   the oldest president to ever complete a term by more than a decade. In the months ahead, President Biden will be looking to promote his record from his first term, seek to highlight the strong results Democrats had in   the midterm elections, and showcase his more than 50 years of experience serving in politics. And while President Biden should face a smooth path to winning the Democratic nomination with no major rivals, the path to president will be a   fierce battle. We`ll hear now from CNN`s Chief White House Correspondent Phil Mattingly with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  There`s no question, over the course of the last 10 days, his closest advisers and outside   allies have been laying the groundwork and accelerating efforts for a reelection announcement to come on Tuesday morning. That announcement would come four years to the day after the anniversary of his first presidential announcement in 2020. JOE BIDEN, (D) U.S. PRESIDENT:  We are in the battle for the soul of this nation. MATTINGLY:  Now during that campaign, he took on and defeated incoming president Donald Trump. Donald Trump, who is now the frontrunner for the   Republican nomination once again. And therein lies some significant challenges for both. But in particular, President Biden, who is 80 years   old and would be 86 at the time of his second term, coming to an end. (On camera):  According to an NBC poll, only 26% of American actually want to see Biden run again. If you look deep into the cross tabs of these   polls, Democrats by a majority don`t want Biden to run again. And those are some of the headwinds that the President will face. Their headwinds,   however, his team is confident he can overcome. Overcome in part due to the sweeping legislative agenda he was able to get past Congress in his first   two years, an agenda he will spend much of the next year selling and able to overcome because of who he will be facing. Whether it`s Trump or some   other Republican where advisors are very clear, they believe they will have a crystal-clear contrast message that will resonate with the American   people. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. In what U.S. state would you find the tallest living tree on earth? California, Texas, Maine or South Carolina? At more than 380 feet tall or one and a quarter football field, a tree named Hyperion is located in California`s Redwood National Forest. But its   exact location? Well, that`s a secret. Close to visitors to protect the 800-year-old giant. Some redwoods, the tallest trees on earth, have lived for thousands of years. They breathe in the moist, humid air along the California coast, and   they can actually help keep the air clean. A man from Michigan believes that cloning these enormous trees is key to fighting climate change. David Milarch co-founded the Archangel Ancient   tree Archive, and he`s on a tremendous mission to save the earth with big trees. And some tiny helpers. CNN`s Chief Climate Correspondent, Bill Weir,   has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BILL WEIR, CNN CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT:  Since they are an all too rare tourist attraction today, it could be hard to believe that giant redwoods   used to line hundreds of miles of northern California coast, living for more than 2000 years as the tallest organisms on earth. Now, David Milarch and his Archangel Ancient Tree Archive is trying to plant a new generation of giants. He takes clippings from the tops of the   oldest and largest, some 400 feet tall, back to his lab in Copemish, Michigan. There, specialists use a technique called micropropagation to grow them into saplings. And he says that from a single sample, a team of scientists   can grow an unlimited number of clones. The problem, how to get them all in the ground. It would probably take an army. That is where these little soldiers come in. They are tree-schoolers at the Cow Hollow School in San Francisco. You heard right, not pre, but tree-  schoolers who attend outdoor classes to learn about ecology and sustainability at an early age by getting their little hands dirty. JEAN FRASER, CEO, PRESIDIO TRUST:  Today is particularly important because we`re planting some very special trees, which is why we have some special   helpers with us today. WEIR:  Keeping their focus is sometimes tough. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  How do you plan sequoias. FRASER:  Sequoias, you plant them the same way, you got to make a hole in the ground, you`re going to learn how to do that and do it with us. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I know how to make a hole. FRASER:  Good, all right. We need the holes in the ground. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I know what a hole is. WEIR:  But when it`s finally time to get down to it, these budding foresters couldn`t wait to dig in. On this day, about a dozen redwood trees   made it into the soil. And for Milarch, these tree plantings are just a start. He hopes someday to replant millions of redwoods all over the world,   using our littlest citizens to help sow the seeds for the biggest forms of life and a healthier planet. As the old proverb goes, the best time to   plant a tree was 20 years ago. The second-best time is now. The meaning may not dawn on these tree schoolers quite yet, but they are proof that you`re   never too young or too old to have an impact. And even the tiniest of hands can make a huge difference. (END VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And for today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10. It`s about the age-old question that`s plagued scientists and cat lovers   throughout time. Why do cats love boxes? As soon as there`s an empty box anywhere in a house, a cat`s going to jump in that thing quicker than a   hiccup. Other animals don`t do that. I consider myself a cat person, so I`m really looking forward to this report. You`ve probably seen a video like this one, where the millions like it. The Internet is overrun by cats in boxes. But why so few videos of dogs in   boxes? Well, we sat down with possibly one of the most qualified cat experts on the planet. INGRID JOHNSON, IAABC CERTIFIED CAT BEHAVIOR CONSULTANT:  That stuff on you can`t have schmutz on you. It`s CNN. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  To find out why cats like boxes and dogs don`t. JOHNSON:  I think one of the things that we have to remember is that cats are a species that are both predator and prey. So for cats, cardboard boxes   can be a spot of safety and security. Nice place to hide and cozy up and take a nap. Also, a great ambush point. Cats are ambush predators and would   much rather just sit under a shrub and slowly wait for their prey to just meander by so that they can successfully catch it. A cardboard box inside   can serve a similar purpose and provide a place for them to pounce. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Having a safe space for a cat, like a cardboard box is essential for their well-being. It`s been proven that cats are far less   stressed and also less likely to break with illness in a shelter setting if they`re provided with a box, because they need a place to feel safe and to   be able to hide. One of the reasons cats like cardboard boxes so much is because cardboard is insulating and helps cats not need to expel any additional energy to   maintain their body temperature. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And sometimes there`s just a simpler reason cats like boxes. JOHNSON:  They love to squeeze themselves into a tiny box. And why? It`s cozy. It`s fun. They like it. The big cats like boxes, too. Probably not   much of a box left when they`re done with it. A lot of people do not meet their cat`s environmental needs. They need nooks and crannies. They need places to hide. You know, every time Amazon   delivers, why not give something to your cat for enrichment? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Now, back to the question, how come our dogs just don`t love boxes as much as cats do? JOHNSON:  They don`t have the same hunting strategies. They don`t have the same need for preservation in a place to hide. Some dogs dig them, but   mostly I think they enjoy tearing them up. It`s just not a dog thing. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  So, cats hide in boxes so they can pounce on us? Sneaky cats. Huge difference between cats and dogs, right? That report, it reminds me of one   of my favorite quotes about cats and dogs. Dogs will give you unconditional love until the day they die. Cats will make you pay for every mistake   you`ve ever made since the day you were born. All righty, meow. Time for my favorite part of the day. I want to give a special shout out to Decatur Middle School in Indianapolis, Indiana. Rise up. Remember, submit   your unique vocabulary word for your word. Wednesday. Can`t wait to work the winner into tomorrow`s show. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-04-27
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello lovely people. Welcome to Thursday or as we like to say Happy Friday Eve. I`m here in Kansas City, Missouri home to   some bang in barbecue and the Super Bowl Champion Kansas City Chiefs. The NFL draft is here this weekend and starting tonight in the first round, the   best college players will see their hard work, dedication and sacrifice pay off when their names are called welcoming them to the NFL.  Now, let`s get to your news. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we start with the latest between the United States and South Korea. U.S. President   Joe Biden and South Korea President Yoon Suk Yeol, they met yesterday at the White House to celebrate their alliances and to make new agreements   aimed at deterring aggression from North Korea. With concerns about North Korea growing, the two nations unveiled the Washington declaration, a set   of new steps to boost U.S. and South Korean cooperation on military training, strategy and assets. This includes a commitment from the United   States to deploy a nuclear armed submarine in South Korea for the first time since the early 1980s. This collaboration comes a year after the North   Koreans fired a record number of nuclear missile tests. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOE BIDEN, (D) U.S. PRESIDENT:  When it comes right down to it, it`s about what you believe, what you stand for, what kind of future you want for your   children and grandchildren. And right now, I believe the world is in an inflection point. The choices we make today, I believe are going to   determine the direction of our world and the future our kids for decades to come. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  The other purpose for the meeting this week is to celebrate 70 years of alliances between the U.S. and South Korea. And the visit signals the   importance of U.S. relations with other allies in the Indo-Pacific region.  Next week, President Biden will host the President of the Philippines Ferdinand Marcos Jr. And in the coming weeks he`s expected to travel to   that region himself. We`ll keep you updated on those events right here on CNN 10.  Ten second trivia. In terms of scientific classification, the giant panda is part of which family? Ursidae, Phocidae, Canidae or Felidae? One of the most recognizable animals in the world giant pandas belong to the Ursidae family, which is the bear family.  Did you know that pandas are often used as diplomatic gifts in China. Beijing sent a panda named Ya Ya to a Tennessee zoo two decades ago as a   sign of cooperation. What is meant to be a bridge of diplomacy between the two nations has become a point of tension though. CNN International   Correspondent Selina Wang is on the ground in China with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SELINA WANG, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Once a symbol of Beijing`s goodwill now the center of angry debate in China. This panda in Memphis,   Tennessee has become the latest victim in worsening U.S.-China tensions. Ya Ya arrived in America with her playmate Le Le two decades ago as an emblem   of growing bilateral friendship.  But recent videos showing the ones fluffy panda now looking skinny with scraggly fur has sparked outrage in China. Many Chinese people in some   animal advocates accusing the zoo of mistreatment.  Videos on Chinese social media claiming the pandas are being abused quickly went viral against the backdrop of growing anti-American sentiment. The   rumors often fanned by state propaganda.  And meanwhile, Chinese social media users are praising these viral videos of this panda in Russia Ruyi claiming videos of the active and playful   panda prove Russia is taking excellent care of the Chinese bear. State TV saying the pandas are helping the Russia-China relationship.  Chinese and American scientists launched a joint investigation concluding that Ya Ya has a genetic fur and skin condition that does not impact her   quality of life. And has received excellent care. But that message is not getting through.  Outside the panda exhibit at the Beijing Zoo. I asked people if they`ve heard of Ya Ya the panda? This man says, yes, she`s abused in America. An   11-year-old boy tells me I heard the U.S. is treating the panda poorly. This man says isn`t Russia taking good care of pandas. Pandas are happy   over there, not like in the U.S. And this man with his granddaughter tells me pandas in Russia are very happy, why? Russians and Chinese are friends.   At least Russia is not sanctioning China.  (On camera): Ya Ya will soon settle in this Beijing Zoo. Now China has long used its pandas as a diplomatic tool. Currently, its pandas on loan to   about 20 countries. The United States has not received one since Ya Ya and Le Le 20 years ago. Now these pandas are normally loaned on these 10-year   leases, and they cost a million dollars annually.  (Voice-over): The Memphis Zoo had already planned to send Ya Ya and Le Le back to Beijing this spring because their lease is expiring, but Le Le died   of heart disease two months ago, at the age of 24. The average lifespan for pandas is usually under 30 years. Yet that didn`t stop rampant speculation   and led to an explosion of accusations about Ya Ya treatment too, accelerating calls to bring Ya Ya back to China.  The message even featured on billboards from New York City to major cities across China. In 1972, during U.S. President Richard Nixon`s historic trip   to China, his wife visited pandas in Beijing. PAT NIXON, U.S. FORMER FIRST LADY, RICHARD NIXON`S WIFE:  On behalf of the people of the United States, I am pleased to be here and accept the   precious gift. WANG:  Months later, China sent a pair of pandas to the National Zoo in Washington D.C. Now, decades later, this pandas returned from the U.S. to   China symbolic, not a growing friendship, but growing animosity between two global superpowers. Selina Wang, CNN, Beijing (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next up, have you ever heard the saying birds of a feather video chat together? I certainly hadn`t. But today`s story getting a 10 out of 10   is about some parents causing quite a kerfuffle by taking video chatting to the next level. Apparently they were taught not how to ask for a cracker   but how to ask for a device to talk with their parent friends. Researchers studied parent behavior during these conversations and came up with some   unexpected conclusions. Our very own Jeanne Moos has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT:  Instead of the usual Polly wants a cracker parrot owners are asking if Polly wants a video chat.  REBECCA KLEINBERGER, STUDY CO-AUTHOR, NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY:  Want to say hi? Do you want to talk to her? You do? OK.  MOOS:  It`s enough to make a lonely parrot Bob its head with excitement. And a paper titled, "Birds of a Feather Video-Flock Together," researchers   described teaching 18 pet parrots to ring a bell. When they rang the bell they were presented with a tablet.  KLEINBERGER:  Which friend would you like to call? MOOS:  And given a choice of parrots for a video chat?  KLEINBERGER:  You want to call Rosie?  MOOS:  Over a three-month period. KLEINBERGER:  Oh Sammy, OK.  MOOS:  The parrots made 147 requests for video calls. KLEINBERGER:  Good job, that`s Georgie. Some birds got called a lot with our VIP birds. Some called -- some birds got called less. MOOS:  The ones who got called the most were the ones who also made the most calls. The researchers could tell the birds were truly engaged because   they premed together. Try did touch one another imitated each other and even sort of sang.  OK, so maybe there were no lovestruck movie moments.  KLEINBERGER:  Whoa, she`s beautiful.  MOOS:  But if you are researching parrots, can there be a greater thrill than this? KLEINBERGER:  Sometimes a bird would actually really call us so sometimes I was in a meeting or giving a class or at home and I would get a phone call   from a bird. MOOS:  Imagine seeing on your caller ID Sammy, the parrot. Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, everyone. We had some awesome Your Word Wednesday submissions yesterday. Thanks to today`s winner Catherine from Park Middle   in West Virginia for kerfuffle. Did you hear it in the show? It`s a noun meaning a commotion or fuss, especially one caused by conflicting views.   Well done.  All right, now on to my favorite part of the show. Want to give a special shout out to Castle Rock Colorado, Castle Rock Middle School, you rock. We   hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one.  I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-04-28
BRYCE YOUNG:  I`m Bryce Young and this is CNN 10. COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up lovely people, it`s the best day of the week, Friday or as you could say, Fridyey. I`m still here in Kansas City   covering the NFL Draft. And can I just say that you all are awesome. I got to meet some students and teachers like Mr. Johnson, a big time Steelers   fan.  And thanks for the love from Ms. Wilson from SM South High, Mr. Cordell from Leawood Middle, and the Horizon Academy, you rock.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news. Let`s go. In a narrow final vote the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill on   Wednesday that would raise the nation`s debt ceiling. The debt ceiling is the total amount of money the government is authorized to borrow. The   package raises the nation`s debt limit by an additional $1.5 trillion up from the more than 31 trillion where it currently stands.  But the plan raises the ceiling in return for spending cuts that are effectively conditions that would take money away from President Joe   Biden`s agenda. And while this measure was passed from the Republican led House, it is seen as dead-on arrival in the Democratic led Senate.  House   Speaker Kevin McCarthy and Republicans, well, they`re looking to negotiate with Democrats and President Biden. But President Biden reiterated that he   would not meet with McCarthy on extending the debt limit saying it`s, "not negotiable."  The White House says that Republicans are holding the economy hostage and slashing programs that hurt the American people. For his part, though,   Speaker McCarthy has said the President is putting the economy in jeopardy and that the House has done its job by passing a bill to avoid default.  So why does this all matter? Well, analysts believe that not raising the debt ceiling could be catastrophic where the economy can hit a freeze,   millions of jobs would be lost and interest rates and loans would spike. In recent years, the debt ceiling debate has been seen as a political tug of   war where the American people, well, they`re the ones always on the losing end.  Our Christine Romans has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN ANCHOR AND CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  Every day the U.S. draws closer to the so-called ex-state when it runs out of money   to pay all the bills. The debt ceiling of $31.4 trillion was hit January 19, unable to borrow more money. The Treasury Department is using so-called   extraordinary measures, moving money around, delaying some investments to make sure everything is paid. And sometime soon as quickly as early June,   the accounting tricks run out and the U.S. risks defaulting on its obligations.  Now, assuming interest payments get top priority every family would face cuts. Social Security payments could be delayed, veterans could receive an   IOU instead of benefits. Federal employees could be furloughed, and it would be catastrophic for financial markets where the credit worthiness of   the United States is the cornerstone of the global financial system.  A default on the debt would trigger market crashes that would crush business and consumer confidence that could further shock the financial   system and throw the economy into a recession. Treasuries could tank interest rates spike, the dollar sync and global economies reel. That is   the reality Congress is sleepwalking toward unless it raises the debt ceiling.  Now Congress has raised the limit 78 times since 1960, 49 times under Republican presidents, 29 times under Democrats. But in recent years, it   has become a political football in a game where the American people are the losing team. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  10 Second trivia. Which of these countries has not performed a controlled landing on the moon? United States, the former Soviet Union, China or Japan? Raise your hand if you said Japan, no moon landing for them. But a Japanese commercial company attempted a landing this week.   Hakuto-R, a lunar lander from Japan would touchdown on the moon this week, at least that was the plan. Ispace, which is a Japanese firm launched it on   a SpaceX rocket back in December from Cape Canaveral Florida then entered orbit around the moon taking three months for it to get there. The plan was   to land Tuesday afternoon.   But flight controllers lost communication with the craft leading officials to assume that it was lost or even crashed. Hakuto-R was supposed to   release a data collecting rover even a robot, the size of a tennis ball but before it did, the mission was over. This could have been historic landing   this craft upon the moon being the first by a private company perhaps another we`ll try again soon.  Next up, a rarely talked about aspect of the Russian invasion on Ukraine. It has taken a huge and sad toll for so many people in the region. But what   about the animals that need to be saved as well? Well, if you`re not, there`s actually a pair of veterinarians bunkered underground and aiding   all sorts of wildlife from snakes to owls to parrots, guinea pigs, even monkeys.  During the rescue efforts, they`ve even had to dodge a few Russian bullets. Just one week after the invasion they cared for about 400 rescued animals   in their clinic. Meet Leonid and Valentina Stoyanov, two of our very own CNN Heroes. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VALENTINA STOYANOV:  We are Leonid and Valentina Stoyanov, exotic and wildlife veterinarians. We`re here right now in Ukraine, in Odesa. LEONID STOYANOV:  All our family, mother, father have to leave Ukraine but we decided for us that we stay here and help animals. V. STOYANOV:  This is our hospital.  L. STOYANOV:  Come on, very cold. V. STOYANOV:  We are almost underground. This safe place for us and for anyone. We usually have unusual animals. For example, turtles, chameleons,   different parrots, guinea pigs, and monkeys. When invasions come, we helps dogs and cats. A lot of people think that all this situation in Ukraine   will be three, four days. So a lot of people just close animals in apartments in houses and think that everything will be fine. After one, two   weeks, it is become very big problem. Neighbors start here how a lot of different animals around them screaming. Each rescue, it`s so tough and at the same time very touching because each animals for us it`s like a members of our family. L. STOYANOV:  We buy tons of dog food, cat food, go to shelters. We feed maybe 600 dogs. We go to frontline and vaccinated and feed dog, cats. And   Russian army, a lot of times shooting our car, and they bombed it. And we have a lot of holes in our car.  We have a lot of work, a lot of animals, a lot of people dying, a lot of our friends dying. Our Vet Crew family, it`s our -- V. STOYANOV:  Social media, yeah. L. STOYANOV:  Social media, it help us. V. STOYANOV:  Of course they send a lot of donations to our foundation, but most important thing for us become kind messengers. Because a lot of   people, you know, just start write us, "Guys, hold on. You are heroes." It`s huge, huge support and we are very, very, very grateful for all this. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is on and popping. A baby moose on the loose in Alaska popped into a movie theater and the story gets even   butter. The movie theater manager says the moose probably smelled popcorn and for about five minutes was rummaging all around eaten any kernel of   corn it could get. Employees even eventually shouting for the hungry moose to leave. For fella just wanted to catch a flick and a little happy meal   too.  Well that`s about all we have time for, for now. The weekend is upon us and it`s not just the end of the week. It`s the end of the month too. Can you   believe? It`ll already be May on Monday. Time flies so maximize these moments lovely people. Before we go, our special shout out is going to Gate City High School in Gate City, Virginia, rise up. Let`s all go out and do something to make the   world a bit of a better place, shall we? Even if it`s just taking the time to make someone smile today. Remember you are more powerful than you know.  I`m Coy Wire, this is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END 

Date: 2023-05-01
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Happy Monday and Happy May to you. I`m so grateful to be back coming to you from CNN Center reporting from the NFL   Draft last week, really was special, though, in large part because I got to meet so many of you, Liberty High School, you rock. What`s up Wilbert. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we start with a story we brought you last week, an update on Ya Ya the panda sent to a Memphis Zoo two decades ago   from China. The moment encapsulated a high point in U.S.-China relations. Remember pandas are used as diplomatic gifts in China. But pandemonium   surface, when many people in China and some animal advocates accused the zoo of mistreatment after a video came out showing the ones furry, cuddly   panda looking skinny was scraggly fur. However American and Chinese scientists concluded after a joint investigation that Ya Ya has a genetic fur and skin condition and that   pandas at this zoo "received excellent care." But reputational damage had already been done. Anti-American panda propaganda flooded feeds on Chinese social media, causing outrage. The plan   all along was for Ya Ya to stay at the Memphis Zoo for 20 years and return this spring and Ya Ya is now back in China. It was a highly anticipated   homecoming. Our Will Ripley has more about this panda that was once a sign of friendship, but has now become a symbol of growing tension between the   U.S. and China. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WILL RIPLEY, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  In China, a hero`s welcome for Ya Ya the panda. At the end of a 16-hour flight from Memphis to Shanghai. Crowds   gathered outside the airport trying to catch just a glimpse of Ya Ya`s crate. Her first moments back on Chinese soil. She`ll spend the next month   in quarantine at the Shanghai zoo, where immediate feeding frenzy is in full swing. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  And many Chinese have been watching closely and looking forward to Ya Ya`s return. RIPLEY:  This geriatric giant panda is a household name in China for all the wrong reasons. When Ya Ya`s panda playmate died of heart disease in   February, pictures of Ya Ya with scraggly fur and sagging skin sparked online pandemonium. A Chinese social media frenzy fueled by false claims. Rampant rumors denied by the zoo of panda abuse and neglect in the U.S. Outrage amplified by anti-American sentiment.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Ya Ya, come back home. RIPLEY:  Bring Ya Ya home became a rallying cry for millions of Chinese. The panda`s picture plastered on billboards from Beijing to the Big Apple.   It`s true, Ya Ya was young and fluffy when she arrived at the Memphis Zoo 20 years ago. On a long-term multimillion dollar lease from China. U.S. and Chinese scientists say she has a genetic condition affecting her skin and fur, a   condition that worsens with old age. No impact on her quality of life just her looks. They even issued a joint statement saying the fact is, Ya Ya had   excellent care. But facts don`t always matter in a world full of fake news.  Anti-American panda propaganda is filling the feeds of Chinese social media users. No mention of the healthy pandas at two other American zoos, but   plenty of pictures of an active and playful panda in Russia, a panda Chinese state media praises for improving bilateral ties.  Ya Ya`s saga will end where it began. The Beijing zoo where she`ll live out her final years. She just might be the world`s most politicized Panda, a   beloved bear that brought the U.S. and China closer now being used to divide.  (On camera):  China has been using pandas as a political tool for decades. They are national treasures and China is very selective about which   countries get these million dollar a year panda loans, the U.S. had not one in two decades. Ya Ya was the last one. But they also heavily censored   social media and allowed this online backlash to grow to the point that people were calling for all pandas to be pulled out of the U.S. and panda   diplomacy to end altogether. And only on Wednesday did the Foreign Ministry of China say that in fact, the pandas at the Memphis Zoo were well taken   care of and actually loved by the American people. Halfhearted attempt perhaps to dial back some of this controversy. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, you all learn studying some very important staple subjects in your schools every day, right, social studies, history, math,   science, the arts on and on. But in today`s world, there are some other important topics that might not always be easy to talk about. One school in   the San Diego area is having their fifth graders tackle issues like racism, bullying, pollution, even gun violence through animations. Our Camila   Bernal explains more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Good morning. Buenos dias. CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  The day begins for these fifth graders with the usual subjects, math, science, reading, and even P.E.   Those may appear easy in comparison to talking about gun violence, global warming, bullying, racism. CHRISTIAN LOPEZ, 5TH GRADE STUDENT:  I chose racism because for me racism is something really -- something that I see often and something that   happens and I feel like all people should be treated the same way, not because they`re different. Because inside, we`re all the same. BERNAL:  Christian Lopez is just one of the more than 500 5th grade students tackling these issues at the National School District just outside   of San Diego. The students choose a topic. AXEL VI, 5TH GRADE STUDENT:  Yeah, I did like world hunger. I feel bad, I really feel bad about because they don`t have the life I have.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We can donate to help them get food and fresh water. BERNAL:  And then use animation --  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Do you think guns should be allowed? Well, I don`t. BERNAL:  -- to explain their thoughts.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Immigration is a problem for everyone. They separate individuals from another, that`s a form of injustice. SHARMILA KRAFT, ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT EDUCATION SERVICES, NATIONAL SCHOOL DISTRICT:  If these are the issues, these are the components that   these young people will face as they become adult, then I believe that it is our responsibility to support them in learning how to maneuver some of   the nuances. BERNAL:  But maneuvering wasn`t always easy. According to animator David Heredi, who created this five-week program. DAVID HEREDI, FOUNDER, HEROES OF COLOR:  It makes people uncomfortable when you put them in a situation to talk about something that is not their lived   experience. And because of that, I think it`s unfair to put a muzzle on a child who wants to express what they`re feeling. BERNAL:  So instead you allow them to talk through their art.  LOPEZ:  Just because they`re a different race doesn`t mean that you have to be rude or to like not to be nice to them, because it`s really hurtful for   those people. BERNAL:  They found ways to help solve or highlight the issues. LOPEZ:  No matter what color we are, we all are humans. BERNAL: And then, they got to feel like celebrities as they share their animations with the world. HEREDI:  It allows us to actually stop and listen to what`s going on in the world of a child and have them offer a potential solution to that problem. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  When you`re kind to someone they`re going to be kind to someone else or you, you should always be kind. BERNAL:  The students feel heard and say they will continue to explore these social justice issues. LOPEZ:  We could still keep working on and progress to make it better. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. In 1817, "The Aerial Walk" considered to be the world`s first modern roller coaster opened in what city? Paris, France, Brooklyn, New York, London, England or Anaheim, California? "The Promenades-Aeriennes" or "The Aerial Walk" debuted in Paris. Passengers walked up a set of stairs, wrote a bench down at 40 miles per   hour, Woo-hoo. Now the folks in Paris from the 19th Century would have said, ooh la la wae wae to the rollercoasters nowadays. They`ve evolved so much and there`s so   fast. Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is an amusement park that you could call the roller coaster capital of the world. Six Flags Magic   Mountain in Valencia, California is home to a whopping 20 roller coasters more than any other theme park on the planet. Some coasters given chills and thrills are called Wonder Woman, flight of courage, Twisted Colossus. And how about the X2 with its 360-degree   rotating seats and head-first, face down drops. That`s enough to send you on an emotional roller coaster.  You know, the most difficult part of a roller coaster is the anticipation of climbing that first big incline. The rest is mostly downhill.  Now, it`s time for my favorite part of this show. Special shout out today is going to North Kingstown Rhode Island Davisville Middle School, rise up.   Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube Channel. Have a great Motivation Monday, everyone. Remember life presents choices. We make   decisions. Those decisions become our destiny.  I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-05-02
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Come on in. Come on in. Terrific Tuesday to you. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news. Yesterday May 1, as you know, was May Day in many countries around the world, commemorating the historic struggles and gains made by workers in   the labor movement, much like Labor Day here in the U.S. But in France yesterday, the holiday turned ugly in Paris as police battled in Workers Union organized protests, with people raging against President   Emmanuel Macron`s decision to raise the retirement age last month. The looming decision has been fought persistently and violently for several   months. In January strikes in cities all across France disrupted train services, planes, schools and businesses across France, as more than 1   million people protested at once. But nothing has stopped French leaders from officially signing into law the very unpopular change to France`s pension system. The country`s   Constitutional Council, which is similar to the Supreme Court here in the U.S. approved raising the retirement age from 62 to 64 last month. Some of   France`s most powerful unions say they`re going to keep fighting. For his part French President Emmanuel Macron believes the current system relying   on the working population to pay for a growing age group of retirees is no longer fit for purpose. And it is worth noting that this new higher pension   age will still keep France well below the norm in Europe and in many other developed economies. These protests are nothing new to the French though. Our Melissa Bell reports to us from Paris about the long history of protests and strikes in   France. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MELISSA BELL, CNN PARIS CORRESPONDENT: Whether it`s over a million protesters on the streets against pension reform, or demonstrations against   infrastructure planning, pesticide bans, or the rise in the cost of living, France is no stranger to protests, and strike action. In fact, the country consistently ranks amongst those most affected by industrial action in Europe. And for national rail workers alone, there   hasn`t been a single year without some kind of strike action since 1947. So why do the French protest and strike so much? The origins of the spirits of protests here in France go right back to the French Revolution. And   we`ve had a reminder of that historical threads, the cacerolada (ph) protests with pots and pans, of which we`ve seen a resurgence that goes   right back to medieval times. We saw it again in the 1830s in a revolution that led to the abdication of Charles X. There is also of course, the   question of the famous "Droits acquis" these are rights that have been acquired hard won, and that the French don`t want to give up. France does seem to protest more readily and often than many other countries. And that goes back to that social pact that was created after   World War II. The French are very attached to it and will take to the streets to protect whatever part of it they feel is under assault. There is   also a history of very strong trade unions in this country, and the historical facts that protests can have an effect on the politics of the   time. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. Talking royalty now, at which of these British landmarks would you see the crowning of a king or queen? Buckingham Palace, Tower of London, Westminster Abbey, or St Paul`s Cathedral? Westminster Abbey has been the coronation location for every single British monarch since the year 1066. It`s a pretty big deal happening in Westminster Abbey this weekend as King Charles III will officially be crowned on Saturday. According to Buckingham   Palace and expected 3000 guests will attend the coronation versus the 8000 who gathered for the late Queen Elizabeth crowning. King Charles became king following the death of his mother in September. Queen Elizabeth II reigned for 70 years, having become queen at the age of   25. King Charles is expected to sit upon his coronation chair, which has been used by monarchs for more than 700 years. But listen to this, his crown is   estimated to be worth more than $4 million. And it`s all blinged out with gold, rubies, sapphires, garnet and more. It weighs more than five pounds,   making the phrase heavy as the head that wears the crown quite literal. Max Foster is in London with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MAX FOSTER, CNN ROYAL CORRESPONDENT:  Not since 1953 that we had a glimpse of this sacred moment. The crowning of a monarch, Queen Elizabeth, then   just 27 thrust to the throne after her father`s untimely death. Her coronation was designed to introduce the young queen to the world and give   a morale boost to post-war Britain. 70 years on, and amidst a cost-of- living crisis, King Charles` coronation will have many of the same traditions incorporated, albeit slightly toned down. Up to 2800 guests in   Westminster Abbey, CNN understands, versus the 8000, who gathered for the late queens. ELIZABETH NORTON, ROYAL HISTORIAN: The King has actually ruffled some feathers by not inviting many members of the ancient nobility, including   some of the Dukes, in fact. But instead, actually the King has invited members of the community, so charitable workers, for example. FOSTER: A sign perhaps that Charles wants to make the monarchy more accessible, though much of the pomp and ceremony will of course remain. The   coronation is first and foremost a religious ceremony. It culminates in the King`s anointing with holy oil, which has been consecrated in Jerusalem. NORTON:  It`s seen as symbolizing the king`s commitment to God because, of course, he`s a very religious man himself. He`s now the head of the church,   and it`s a sacred moment. FOSTER: His wife, Camilla, will also be anointed and crowned. Charles` sons, William and Harry, will be there. Although Harry`s wife Meghan will   remain at home in California with their two young children. It remains to be seen what role Harry will play in proceedings now that he`s set back   from his senior role duties. For many in Britain, the coronation is about more than just another public holiday. There`ll be street parties up and down the U.K. and 1000s will   come here to Buckingham Palace to witness the famous balcony moment to see for the first time the newly crowned king and queen. (Voice-over): Many more will line the streets for the coronation procession, just as they did for Queen Elizabeth seven decades ago. The   King and Queen will travel in this gilded carriage accompanied by a huge military procession. Nighttime rehearsals spotted in the streets of London   as the Capitol gears up for a moment in history. Max Foster, CNN London. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Did you know giant anteaters can get up to eight feet long. But listen to this, their tongue is two feet long and they can flick it in and   out of their mouth 150 times per minute more than two times per second. But you can`t do that. Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is about a sweet   anteater named Eury in North Carolina and all she wants to do is catch some Z`s. Jeanne Moos has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT:  What is this thing and why is this keeper having such a hard time waking him up? KELLY RAUCH, GREENSBORO SCIENCE CENTER, NORTH CAROLINA KEEPER:  Good morning. MOOS:  Rob his ears. RAUCH:  Want to wake up? MOOS:  Give him his favorite treat avocado still he puts his paw over his ear. Eury, the 22-year-old giant anteater just covers his head with his   tail a built-in blanket. RAUCH:  This is an everyday thing for me is getting this boy out of bed is difficult. MOOS:  The Greensboro North Carolina Science Center captioned the video, "our sweet, forever teenager." RAUCH:  Come on Eury. Come on. MOOS:  It went massively viral who doesn`t relate just five more minutes. What does he have to get up for? Is he late for something? Let him sleep. But Eury named after the vacuum cleaner brand your Eureka needs to get up and take his meds mixed in avocado. 22 is ancient for an anteater. In the   wild they only live to about 14. (On camera): Are anteaters dangerous? I bet they could disembowel you with their claws. RAUCH: That is totally true. So, we actually don`t go in with Eury when he`s awake and walking around like this. MOOS:  Check out the claws on this itchy anteater in South America. No wonder keeper Kelly Rauch held Eury`s leg. RAUCH: Don`t give me the claw. MOOS:  In case he woke up on the wrong side of the bed. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  I feel bad for anteaters. They must be so lonely being that there`s no such thing as an uncle eater. All right, that`s about all we have time   for, for now. But first hello to all of our friends in Federal Way Washington. We`re sending a huge shout out to Decatur High School, you   rock. Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our CNN YouTube Channel. See you tomorrow, everyone. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-05-03
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello lovely people, good day and good vibes to you from magnificent Miami. We`re here ahead of the huge Formula One race   this weekend. And that guy right there, well, that`s the legend seven-time world champ Lewis Hamilton. He`ll be one of the fastest drivers on the   planet. Zoom in at top speeds of about 200 miles per hour. We hope you`re often zooming today as well.  It`s Wednesday, May 3, also #yourwordwednesday. Follow me @coywire on Instagram, Snapchat and TikTok and put your unique vocabulary word in the   comment section of my most recent posts. And we`re going to choose one, good one to work in tomorrow`s show.  Let`s go. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we start in Spain today where they are seeing a major drought. The Spanish National Weather Service says   the country has been in a long-term drought since the end of last year.  In March, the country only received 36% of its average monthly rainfall, which made it the second driest March this century. But it didn`t stop   there, that trend continued into last month and we may see it now end up being the driest on record. These conditions have been caused by soaring   temperatures that make it feel like it`s mid-summer instead of springtime.  The lack of water, well, it`s having a catastrophic impact on farms across the region. According to the coordinator of farmers and ranchers   organizations, the drought has affected about 60% of Spain`s countryside, and it`s destroyed crops across more than 8 million acres. That`s an area   bigger than the entire State of Maryland.  Also, Spaniards have been asked to conserve water by taking quick showers, being mindful when washing dishes and not filling their swimming pools. Our   Senior International Correspondent Fred Pleitgen has more on the very dry conditions in Spain. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: From afar, even a natural disaster can look majestic. But up close, the full impact of the   global climate emergency is clear to see. This is the Sau Reservoir near Barcelona, normally one of the largest bodies of freshwater in this part of Spain, but months of drought and the   water levels are so low and the entire medieval village usually underwater has come to light. (On camera): The folks here say normally you`d barely be able to see even the tip of the medieval church because it would be almost fully submerged.   But now as you can see the church is very much on land and the authorities here fear things will get much worse once the summer`s heat really sets in. (Voice-over): The Sau Reservoir is already at less than 10% capacity. And that`s causing hundreds of thousands of acres of farmland to dry up. All of   this wheat is probably lost. Farmers, Santi Caudevilla shows me why. The grain should be milky, he said. We`re in a critical moment. If it doesn`t rain, this will end up empty. We should be seeing the grain come up   to here but it`s only like this. If it doesn`t rain in the coming week the crop will be zero. But there is no rain in sight and temperatures in Spain have skyrocketed. Scientists at the Institute of Agri-Food Research and Technology are trying   to find ways to make very little water go a longer way. Chief scientist Joan Girona says efficiency to be maximized. JOAN GIRONA GOMIS, RESEARCHER, IRTA:  It`s our goal, taking the most of our drop of water.  PLEITGEN (voice-over):  Just like the crops, the people in this area are also in survival mode. Dozens of towns are without water and need to get it   trucked in. The village Castellcir hasn`t had any for about a year and residents say they can`t even remember the last time it rained. I don`t recall, Juan, tells me. It`s been a long time a year or more without proper rain, nothing. Back at the Sau Reservoir, authorities are   actually draining most of the remaining water to prevent this precious and ever scarcer resource from getting contaminated by the sludge at the bottom   of this once mighty lake. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, summer is just around the corner. And if you and your family are thinking about heading to any of the South Florida or Caribbean   beaches, you might need to know that you could encounter some seaweed, and by some I mean a whole lot of it. That`s because a record-breaking amount   of seaweed known as Sargassum, which can smell like rotten eggs or sulfur when it washes up on shore is starting to pile up on popular beaches   threatening tourism in certain areas.  Check out this NASA image which shows just how enormous this massive blob of floating seaweed is, 13 million tons of it just drifting ominously   throughout the Caribbean stretching all the way to the West Coast of Africa. CNN`s Leyla Santiago reports from a beach in Key West, Florida and   tells us how this seaweed phenomenon is just the tip of the iceberg with the peak expected to come later this summer.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LEYLA SANTIAGO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: This is Sargassum mixed in with a few other things and this is what is inundating Florida`s Coast specifically   they`re expecting the East Coast. And remember last month we talked about this but now we`re actually starting to see it come in and those record   numbers that scientists predicted. So much so that take a look over here, the beach rakers here on this beach and Key West have already a wide and   have already done one run through on what`s hitting the Florida coast right now. Let`s go for a walk so I can kind of show you how all of this stuff just piles up and again gets pretty smelly, because it decays out here. And as   we mentioned, this is what one scientist told me it`s just the tip of the iceberg, more expected. Because when this is out there, it is not only   right now a 5000-mile-long body of seaweed, it is still growing while it`s out there, so it is increasing in the amount that will be headed this way. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. What country has the southernmost capital in the world? Argentina, Australia, New Zealand or South Africa? When it comes to capital cities, Wellington New Zealand is as low as you can go sitting at 41 degrees south. Now when you think of New Zealand, you might think of Kiwis which is the country`s iconic national bird but the population of these flightless birds   has plummeted. Conservationists say that most people have never seen a kiwi in the wild and estimate that there are only about 70,000 of them left in   the country. But as our Michael Holmes tells us there are now efforts to keep this species alive and thriving in New Zealand. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  The fight to save the Kiwi, the iconic flightless bird is taking off in New Zealand. PAUL WARD, CAPITAL KIWI PROJECT TEAM LEADER:  Ever since people came here we`ve had a special connection with the animal known as the kiwi, Central   Tamari Mirth (ph) sports teams, our rugby league team, our defense force, you know, even when we go overseas, we`re known as kiwis. So it`s our duty   really to look after the animal that`s gifted us its name. HOLMES:  There are about 90 initiatives to save the Kiwis in New Zealand, many of them focusing on removing threats, which have reduced the   population by educating dog owners and killing predator species like stoats.  WARD:  Kiwi are surprisingly tough and resilient. They got these big fighting claws so now Kiwi can fight off a whole heap of pests from possums   and stoats that really the only issue for adult kiwi is roaming dogs. Where they get hammered as stoats eating the checks before they get up to that   fighting weight.  HOLMES:  A group of Kiwis raised in a breeding program was released near Wellington last November. Experts say that could be the first-time wild   Kiwis lived in the area in about a century. And so far, they seem to be thriving.  WARD:  We did the first health check a couple of months later. And we were expecting them to kind of, you know, hold weight or lose a bit of weight.   But the really pleasing result was that half of those birds had put on weight including one bit put on a whopping 400 grams. So it`s like this   here plenty of food on the ladder out on these hills.  HOLMES:  That`s hopefully room to grow for New Zealand`s national treasure and the national effort to save it. Michael Holmes, CNN. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, a final story takes us to America`s Heartland where fur baby is getting today`s 10 out of 10 for winning this year`s B.A.R.K.   Ranger Superintendent of the Gateway Arch Park in St. Louis, meet the adorable Betty Faith, the 12-year-old Basset Hound taken the crown adopted   back in 2020 after being rescued from a tough breeding and hoarding situation. Betty has a new leash on life as the top dog at Gateway Arch   Park. B.A.R.K. Ranger is a program run by the National Park Service and B.A.R.K. stands for, Bag your pet`s waste, Always leash your pet, Respect   wildlife, and Know where you can go. That`s pretty doggone sweet. Congrats Betty Faith. We`re giving a special shout out to Delaware Valley High School in Milford, Pennsylvania today. We see you warriors. And one other special shout out to   Alex at Renfroe and Harper at Talley who watched CNN 10 every day from Decatur, Georgia. Well, their dad Glenn Levy is our guest producer today.   Rise up See you tomorrow everyone. You are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-05-04
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello sunshine. Welcome to Thursday or as we like to say, Happy Friday Eve. We`re here in beautiful Miami ahead of the big   Formula One race this weekend, where drivers like the legend Lewis Hamilton will be going, flying down the track more on him in a few. Let`s get this show on the road and do it we do. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news. Let`s start today with something that`s   making big headlines out of Hollywood in the entertainment industry, the writer strike. More than 11,000 members of the Writers Guild of America   went on strike for the first time in more than 15 years. It`s a move bringing the production of many television shows to a standing halt. And it   could even possibly delay the start of new seasons of other shows later this year. Writers say they are not being paid by the studios fairly in the streaming era. Union leadership says, "studios responses to our proposals have been   wholly insufficient, given the existential crisis writers are facing." And that they are, "closing the door on their labor force and opening the door   to writing as an entirely freelance profession." Now the alliance of Motion Picture and television producers is the trade association that bargains on behalf of the studios, television networks and   streaming platforms. They said in a statement that its offer included, "generous increases in compensation for writers." But was not willing to   meet some of the union`s demands such as requiring companies to staff television shows with a certain number of writers for a specific period of   time, whether needed or not. Many shows on cable and broadcast networks have already filmed their final episodes for the current season. But late-night shows will be the first to   be impacted with this strike as many of those shows have already announced they`ll be going dark this week. Our Stephanie Elam has more for us from   the picket lines. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT: These members of the Writers Guild of America are out here in front of Netflix in Hollywood, to voice their   displeasure with contract negotiations and saying that they`re on strike because they need to make a living wage. A lot of these people live here in   Los Angeles or in New York, where those are two of the most expensive cities in their country. And they`re saying they need to make a living wage   and at issue, they`re also saying that they should make more money for the shows that they do for the streamers. They`re saying that the business   model hasn`t adapted and they`re not getting their fair share. Also, they`re saying they want to make sure that the writer rooms are protected. And the number of writers who are on the show have viable work.   They`re saying that the studios are really pushing for a gig economy. And they`re saying they can`t support their families that way. In fact, take a   listen to one of the writers talk about their frustrations. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This becomes a gig job rather than a stable job. And you were searching all year for your next job and your next job. And taking   offers that are less than less than being told by the companies. This is simply what we offer now. I am not living UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I`m not living in Beverly Hills. It`s a struggle for everybody. It`s hard, I mean, it`s expensive to live in this town. And I   think we`re all, you know, everybody struggles, everybody`s trying to pay bills, everybody`s trying to just make a decent living and a decent wage.   And I don`t think what we`re asking for is unfair at all. ELAM:  Now on the other side, the studios are saying is that the business has changed. You`re saying they`re feeling pressure from Wall Street, to   bring down how much they`ve been spending on all the shows that they`re streaming, and all the shows that they`re making. And they`re saying they   don`t want to pay to just have writers in the room if they`re not working specifically on any show at that time. Of course, this is a very far gap between where they are right now. The last time we saw a strike it was 15 years ago, and it lasted for 100 days.   And as we had estimates of costing some $2 billion or so.  Right now, where they are, they`re not even sure if they`re even close to getting to a deal.   I`m told by the chief negotiator for the WGA. But as far as the people who watch the shows, the people who consume these shows, it`s impacting   already, because we`ve seen the late-night talk shows already go to black.  They are saying they will be black as long as this strike is happening. So   that means Seth Meyers, I mean Stephen Colbert, that means the Daily Show and Saturday Night Live, all dark for now. As far as TV shows and movies, a lot of those are already pre-produced and already in the can. But if this drags on for a long time, then some of the   favorite shows that people like to watch could be impacted, you might see seasons delayed. All of that is down the line. But for now, this is what   the Writers Guild of America says they need to do to get their fair share of pay. Stephanie Elam, CNN Hollywood. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. In 1955, mathematician John McCarthy coined what term? Artificial Intelligence, Virtual Reality, Metaverse or 3D Printing? AI had a number of early contributors to the concept, but McCarthy is credited with coming up with the name.   The advancement of AI technology has been so swift that many of us can look at something today and question, is that real or not? Especially when it   comes to photos, videos, text and music, to name a few. Well, Geoffrey Hinton, also known as the Godfather of AI, decided he had to blow the   whistle on this technology he helped develop. He made headlines for leaving his role at Google last week because he wanted to speak more openly about   his growing concerns around AI. Hinton said, AI has the potential to eliminate jobs and create a world where many will, "not be able to know   what is true anymore." Our Anna Stewart has more on Hinton`s warnings. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER:  The chorus of critics, warning about the risks of AI are growing louder. And this particular voice comes from Geoffrey   Hinton, a pioneer of the technology. His work on Neural Networks provided a key foundation for many of the AI applications that you see today. Now, he has quit his job, and he`s tweeted that he left so that he could talk about the dangers of AI without considering how that impacts Google.   Adding that Google has acted very responsibly. And for its part, Google says it remains committed to a responsible approach. Hinton says he`s concerned that people won`t be able to distinguish what`s real, and what AI generated or manipulated by the internet. And that   includes music, videos, texts, photos, and we are seeing examples of this a lot. Hinton also expressed concern about the impact AI will have on people`s jobs. And that comment came as the CEO of IBM in an interview with   Bloomberg said, AI may replace up to 30% around 7800 of their back-office jobs. Finally, Hinton says AI could become smarter than people and pose a threat to humanity. And he now thinks that will happen much sooner than he had   once thought. Now, all this, he says, has been exacerbated by huge competition by the big tech companies. There`s open AI, there`s Microsoft, Google, IBM, Amazon,   Baidu, Tencent, all racing to position themselves in the AI space. But Hinton thinks perhaps there should be a pause. He says scientists should   really work together at this stage to control the technology, saying, I don`t think they should scale this up more, until they have understood   whether they can control it. Anna Stewart, CNN, London. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: All right, today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10 is the one and only Lewis Hamilton widely considered as the goat, the Greatest Of All Time in   Formula One racing. He has more wins than any other driver ever and a record tying Seven World Championships. He started driving karts as a kid   and some people would make fun of him because he couldn`t afford a fancy kart like other racers, but Lewis` dad said, son, let your racing do the   talking. And today Lewis has built himself into a legend with hard work, dedication and belief in himself. You know, youngsters today, they see social media and they think success is easy. And it`s overnight. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LEWIS HAMILTON, FORMULA ONE, RACE CAR DRIVER:  Yeah. WIRE:  Not true. I think it`s really important that they see legends like you had to grind before you shine. What was one of the jobs coming up when   you look back, he`s kind of giggled about it? HAMILTON:  Cleaning cars probably. I was cleaning -- I was cleaning cars for like a dealer in town. I worked at a close clothing store. And I worked   at a sneaker, sneaker store when I was like JD Sports when I was a kid. So, I tried a bunch of different things. But I was always -- when I was at   work, all I was thinking of is, how I`m going to win the next race. And yeah, I think you`re right today I think people do see successful people on social media and taught them how to understand, how much grafting   it takes to become -- to get to a good place and -- but the crazy thing is I`m -- I`m in my, what, my 17th year of this sport, and doing 30 years, I`m   still grafting. I`m still having to chip away. I`m still having to work like never before to be able to excel in a sport that`s constantly   evolving. The competition is constantly rising; it`s getting more and more -- it`s getting tougher and tougher by the year. You just got to have the   winning mindset and also that belief in yourself that you will get there no matter how many times you fall. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Awesome stuff. You can see Lewis on TV, zoom in at speeds of up to 200 miles per hour this weekend right here in Miami as he keeps chasing   greatness. Hope something in today`s show helps you chase your greatness as well. Great potential lies within. Special shout out is going to the Assets School in Honolulu, Hawaii, aloha and many blessings to you. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-05-05
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello lovely people. It`s Friday, Friyay, hope the fourth was with you yesterday, wishing you a happy Cinco de Mayo today.   I do want to apologize though, I forgot about Your Word Wednesday, reporting from Miami everything was a bit higgledy-piggledy. So today I   promised to work something you posted on my social media into this show. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we start with the alleged drone attack on Russia`s Kremlin. The Kremlin is a complex located in the center of Moscow,   and it`s often used to refer to the Russian government. Check out this video, appearing to show two drones flying towards the Kremlin early Wednesday morning, exploding on its dome. Russia claims   Ukraine sent the drones to kill Russian President Vladimir Putin. They say nobody was killed or injured in the alleged attack. And the Kremlin   spokesperson says Putin wasn`t in the building. Here`s Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, responding to these allegations. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT:  We don`t attack Putin or Moscow. We fight on our territory. We`re defending our villages and cities. We   don`t have, you know, enough weapon for this. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Now, Russia then claimed that the United States was involved in the attack. But on CNN, John Kirby, the Coordinator for Strategic   Communications at the National Security Council in the White House, denied U.S. involvement and accused President Putin spokesperson of lying. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOHN KIRBY, NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL COMMUNICATIONS COORDINATOR:  I would just tell you Mr. Peskov`s lying. I mean, it`s obviously a ludicrous claim.   The United States had nothing to do with this. We don`t even know what happened here. Kaitlan. But I can assure you, the United States had no role   in it whatsoever. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  U.S. officials have also said they were still assessing this incident and had no information about who might have been responsible if   there was an attack. Ten second trivia. Charles III is now the King of the United Kingdom. But who`s next in line for the throne? Prince Harry, Prince William, Prince George or Princess Charlotte? Prince William, the eldest son of King Charles is on deck to be the next king. Earlier in the week, we told you about the big event happening this Saturday at Westminster Abbey in London, the coronation of King Charles III   and his wife Camilla, Queen Consort.  Charles III has been the heir to the British throne for 70 years but ever since his Mother Queen Elizabeth II   passed away in September. Preparation for this historic event has been in overdrive expect lots of pomp and circumstance and his highly anticipated   tradition. But things have changed quite a bit since Queen Elizabeth`s coronation way back in 1950s, the new leader of the British monarchy is facing a   completely different Britain and with changes in societal demographics, minority ethnic groups rising and more religious diversity in the nation.   Questions have been raised about the relevance of the monarchy in today`s modern U.K. Our Bianca Nobilo has more for us from London. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And heavier indeed for the revelers who welcome Britain`s coronation here in Piccadilly. BIANCA NOBILO, CNN CORRESPONDENT & ANCHOR:  The longest interlude between two coronations in British history. Decades of demographic, religious and   societal change, raising questions about the relevance of the monarchy today, 1953 was full of post-war joie de vivre and excitement about a new   young queen. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  They`ve come to seek work in Britain. NOBILO:  Despite waves of historic migration, Britain in the 1950s was overwhelmingly white, Christian and divided along class lines in society   and the halls of power. Today, three of the four great offices of state including the Prime Minister are from minority backgrounds, 20% of the   population today are from ethnic minority backgrounds too and rising, many from countries subject to exploitation in the former British Empire. BIDISHA MAMATA, COLUMNIST:  The monarchy itself has to find a respectful and humble place for itself without pretending that it doesn`t have all of   its privilege, all of its history and all of its baggage. NOBILO:  Though crumbling slowly after the Second World War, Britain was still stratified along class lines in the 1950s. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  German tales denote rank, a duchess for example wears Rose. NOBILO:  Modern Britain is in many ways allergic to the idea of inherited privilege. Society at least strives to be egalitarian. But a recent poll   commissioned by the BBC, Britain`s National Broadcaster suggests that King Charles might have a problem appealing to young people, 38% of whom said   that they would support an elected head of state and indifference might be a problem too, 78% said they weren`t interested in the royal family. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I think it`s definitely time to rethink and I know a lot of people loved Queen Elizabeth. And I don`t think that same fondness   is there for King Charles. NOBILO:  The monarchs since the 16th century is also titular head of the Church of England. In 1953, the majority of the country was Christian.   Today, it is half that with the number of non-religious and non-Christian faiths rising each year with multi-faith leaders playing a role in the   coronation for the first time. King Charles, who has declared himself to be defender of all faiths was honored here at Britain`s largest mosque ahead of the coronation. So could   this be an opportunity for all communities in Britain to come together? SABAH AHMEDI, IMAM:  Within Islam, we`re taught that part of your faith is loyalty to your nation. And we also know that the coronation is part of the   history of this nation, and our citizens, we respect that history. NOBILO:  The coronation is a litmus test for how King Charles will be received by 2023 Britain and whether enthusiasm, apathy or opposition to   the monarchy will shape his reign. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  The Met Gala, the annual fundraising gala benefiting the Metropolitan Museum of Art`s Costume Institute in New York City, has   traditionally been timed to mark the opening of its annual fashion exhibition. Well, today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, the cockroach who   crashed the red carpet. Jeanne Moos has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT:  With so many celebs at the Met Gala dressed up like designer Karl Lagerfeld`s cat, it`s a wonder a   cockroach dared to scurry up the red carpet. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  No. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  No. MOOS:  But there it was getting treated like a celebrity. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Get a photo. Kevin gets a photo. MOOS:  Variety captured a Getty photographer blinding the roach with his flash, a roach that made people which called it The Surprise Star of the   2023 Met Gala. Others called it best dressed. It arrived fashionably late, showing up before the last guest Rihanna. Naturally, someone had to ask   about its outfit. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  What are you wearing? MOOS:  But fashion was a subject this roach wouldn`t broach, it disappeared only to reappear on the banister. You`d think it was a raft instead of a   roach, the way the crowd reacted. Photographer Kevin Mazur at one point jokingly pretended to stomp on it. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  No. MOOS:  Then accidentally kicked it around but that didn`t stop it. And then Variety tweeted out the alarming news. It is with deep sadness that we must   report the Met Gala cockroach was stepped on. And thus does a join other bug. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It`s coming from the health sector. Holy, I just swallow the bee. MOOS:  That have given their lives so very publicly. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Nice. MOOS:  We will remember you; you fleet footed fashionista with panache smashed on the red carpet. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Poor fella, rest in pieces. No time for melancholy though. It`s a fantastic Friday and today`s winners for Your Word Wednesday vocabulary   submissions are @Kara J. Cochran in Villa Madonna Academy. Melancholy, a noun or adjective meaning a feeling of pensive sadness. And Mr. Veces (ph)   and Mrs. Schweitzer`s (ph) class at Bridge Valley, their word was Higgledy- piggledy, an adjunctive meeting involving confusion or disorder. Well done. A special shout out is going to Jefferson High School in Sioux Falls, South Dakota today, we see you. This has been an awesome week and we`ve been   learning and laughing and uplifting each other. I want you to have an awesome weekend everyone to remember, you are more powerful than you know.   I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END 

Date: 2023-05-08
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. Hope you had a wonderful weekend. Looking forward to starting this week   strong with you. Let`s start this show with the hottest ticket in town, which was the coronation of King Charles III at Westminster Abbey in   London. About 2200 people, including royal family members, celebrities, faith leaders and heads of state from around the world were there to see   74-year-old King Charles officially crowned into the royal lineage of the British monarchy with his 22-carat gold 360-year-old crown.  It`d been 70 years since the last coronation when King Charles` mother, Queen Elizabeth II took the crown. His wife Camilla received her own   coronation as well as Queen. Like her husband, she was anointed with holy oil by the Archbishop of Canterbury before having Queen Mary`s crown placed   on her head. Senior royals Prince William and wife Princess Catherine were there. Prince Harry as well, but without his wife Meghan who reportedly stayed in the   U.S. with their children.  After the ceremony, there was a massive procession from Westminster Abbey to Buckingham Palace with about 4000 troops escorting the King and Queen.   The newly anointed monarch and the Queen waved as thousands of spectators packed the streets of London to get a glimpse of the royal couple.  But this pageantry saw some feathers ruffled as well. Antimonarchy demonstrators were also present wearing yellow t-shirts, booing and   shouting, not my king. London`s Metropolitan police said it had made more than 50 arrests during the coronation from these protests.  Our Max Foster has more on this piece of history in the making.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MAX FOSTER, CNN ROYAL CORRESPONDENT: A day of destiny, the patient prince crowned at last. Charles III, king of the United Kingdom and Commonwealth   realms. London stood still as well-wishers lined the streets, huddled in the rain to join the celebration of British monarchy. Leaders, dignitaries, family members and celebrities, more than 2000 gathered in Westminster Abbey for this once in a generation event. Prince   Harry entered alongside other royals, including Prince Andrew, Prince Edward, Princess Beatrice and Princess Eugenie.  The Prince and Princess of Wales arrived behind the King and Queen and followed them into the Abbey in what appeared to be a break from the   schedule. King and Queen, married in 2005, arrived in splendor. The couple wore their respective robes estates Camilla in the robe of state originally   made for Queen Elizabeth II. The deeply religious ceremony moved through several stages. First, the recognition. Charles faced the four points of a   compass symbolically presenting himself to the people.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I here present unto you King Charles.  FOSTER: Breaking from tradition, Charles read a prayer aloud.  KIND CHARLES III:  We may discover the ways of gentleness and be led into the paths of peace. FOSTER: Another first, a gospel choir. Before the oath, Charles acknowledged the role of the Church of England to foster an environment in   which people of all faiths and beliefs may live freely.  KIND CHARLES III: I will. FOSTER: 70 years since his mother before him, Charles fulfills his destiny and takes his place in the holy lineage of kings and queens. Made for the   last King Charles in 1661, the sovereign crown comprises solid gold set with rubies and sapphires and other gems. Would the crown fit?  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: God saved the king.  CROWD: God saved the king. FOSTER: Queen Camilla received her own coronation. Like her husband, she was anointed with holy oil and the keeper of the jewel house. Then   presented the consort`s ring, marrying her to the king, to God, and their people.  From Westminster Abbey to Buckingham Palace, a vast procession of 4000 ceremonial troops accompanied the royals into a new era, a new Britain,   ruled by its newly crowned monarch. Max Foster, CNN, Buckingham Palace, London.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. Which of these institutions is currently led by Jerome Powell? The Federal Reserve, the FBI, Princeton University, or J.P. Morgan? Jerome Powell is the current Chairman of the Federal Reserve, which is the central bank in the United States. For the past year, we`ve seen the   Federal Reserve repeatedly trying to tame soaring inflation by hiking up interest rates.  Well, the Fed did it again for the 10th consecutive time since last March. The continued raising of the interest rates is hurting Americans pockets,   especially when it comes to paying for mortgages, car loans and credit card bills. Our Christine Romans is here to break it all down for us.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT: The Federal Reserve has raised rates ten times over the past year. That target interest rate from   the Fed influences a lot of other borrowing costs for mortgages, credit cards, business loans. The Fed`s attempt to tame inflation raises costs for   all Americans. Let`s look at how it`s felt in your household budget.  The rate for a 30-year fixed rate mortgage was 4.16% back when the rate hike started over a year ago. Today it`s 6.39%. So on a $500,000 loan with   20% down, that works out to be more than $500 extra a month.  New car loans have jumped from four and a half percent last year to almost 7% on a six year auto loan. That means the monthly car payment is $63 more   expensive for the same car.  The Fed`s rate hikes make credit card debt even more dangerous and expensive to carry. Average credit card rates have soared from 14 and a   half percent, already high to a record above 20%. So if you pay just a minimum on $2,000 balance say, it`ll take you nearly eleven more months to   pay it off because of the rising interest rates. More recently, the Fed has signaled a potential pause in new rate hikes. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, the wildest prom arrival we`ve ever seen. You`ve heard of limos, buses, vintage cars, horse drawn   carriages, but have you ever heard of someone showing up to prom in a tank? Not a tank top, but like a legit tank, an armored one. Jeanne Moos has   more.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT:  This is how Washington State resident Sherman Bynum made his entrance at the Camus High School prom in   the turrets of a World War II tank., UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Sherman, are you happy?  SHERMAN BYNUM, CAMAS HIGH SCHOOL STUDENT:  Heck, yeah.  We`re kind of tired of seeing sports cars, limousines, the average ride, but also as a teenage boy, I mean, I like tanks.  MOOS: It was offloaded near the prom venue, the treads rubberized to avoid damage in roads. A bagpiper known as the Unipiper served as an escort.   Sherman, no relation to the tank, used a GoFundMe page to raise the $1,000 needed to rent the tank from a collector who did the driving. As for   Sherman`s date. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  He asked me with a sign that said, I`d be thankful to take you to prom with me. And it was perfect.  MOOS: Perfect, though to protect her gown. BYNUM: She did not want to sit inside of the tank. That was not something she was interested in at all. Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  But dude, she was like, no, thank you. She`s not riding that thing. Many thanks to all of you who have subscribed and have been commenting on   our CNN 10 YouTube Channel. I wish there was a way for us to get to every single one of you.  Today`s shoutout is going to Big Sky State Park High School in Livingston, Montana. We see you. It`s Monday, May the 8th. Let`s go, be great.   Remember, greatness isn`t just innate. It`s something you create and cultivate. Outwork everyone every single day. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN   10. END 

Date: 2023-05-09
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, lovely people. Happy Tuesday to you. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news. We start today with a tough topic, a controversial one that leaves many in the United States divided. It`s the ongoing debate about gun control.  This comes after a mass shooting unfolded at a shopping mall in Allen, Texas, about 25 miles north of Dallas. Eight people were killed at least   seven others wounded at the time of this reporting.  According to the Gun Violence Archive, the United States has suffered at least mass shootings within the first five months of this year. This non-  profit group and CNN define a mass shooting as one in which four or more people are shot. Vigils and church services were set up in the city of Allen in support of the victims and their families as investigators were searching for answers.   In response to the tragedy, Texas Republican Governor Greg Abbott focused on the need for better help with mental health, stating, quote: We are   working to address that anger and violence by going to its root cause, which is addressing the mental health problems behind it, unquote. Abbott   also added, quote: People want a quick solution. The long-term solution here is to address the mental health issue, unquote. For his part, President Biden on Sunday asked Congress to pass new gun control laws. Our Jeremy Diamond has more for us from the White House on   the president`s reaction and his continued call for actions on gun reform. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: The flag above the White House is once again flying at half staff, as we watch this all too familiar   ritual in the wake of yet another deadly mass shooting play out. President Biden putting out a statement offering his prayers to the victims and their   families and also thanking first responders for acting quickly and courageously. He says that federal law enforcement officials are offering   assistance to state and local authorities. But what we`re also hearing from President Biden is once again a call to action a call to enact the kind of   common sense gun reforms that President Biden believes are necessary.  And he`s also making clear who he believes is responsible for the inaction on those efforts in Washington, saying in a statement, quote: Too many   families have empty chairs at their dinner tables. Republican members of Congress cannot continue to meet this epidemic with a shrug. Tweeted   thoughts and prayers are not enough.  Once again, I asked Congress to send me a bill banning assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. Enacting universal background checks. Requiring   safe storage. Ending immunity for gun manufacturers. I will sign it immediately. We need nothing less to keep our streets safe. And President Biden in this statement also says that he believes the country has made some progress in addressing this issue, pointing to his   signing of that bipartisan safer communities act that sought to incentivize more red flag laws in the country and address mental health resources, but   he also makes clear that he believes that despite the nearly two dozen executive actions he has signed on this issue, he believes he`s now reached   the limit of his executive authorities and he says that the burden now rests with Congress.  Jeremy Diamond, CNN, the White House. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: We head to Asia now where Japanese President Fumio Kishida made a historic visit to Seoul to meet South Korean President Yoon Suk-yeol. It`s   the first time a Japanese leader has visited the capital in more than a decade, both nations look to strengthen relations while facing a growing   threat from North Korea. Our Paula Hancocks has more from Seoul. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Japan and South Korea appear to be moving closer together at least at the government and leadership level.   Japan`s Prime Minister Fumio Kishida has ended a two-day visit to Seoul to meet his South Korean counterpart Yoon Suk Yeol. And there were a number of important issues on the agenda North Korea and security issues in the region but also historical issues which date back to   the time when Japan colonized Korea. Now, for example, forced labor during wartime. This is an issue that President Yoon has been trying to resolve.   He has come under domestic criticism for that in a belief by some. Certainly, the more liberal part of the country that he is offering more   concessions to Japan than he is receiving in return.  Now there were some hopes from the liberals that there would be another apology from Japan`s side for the colonial times. There was not but there   was a personal message of sympathy from Japan`s prime minister. FUMIO KISHIDA, JAPANESE PRIME MINISTER (through translator): My heart aches as many people went through a very difficult and sad experience in the   harsh environment at that time. HANCOCKS: Now, President Yoon said that there was a need to dispel the perception that Japan and South Korea could not take a single step forward   until all the historical issues had been completely resolved.  Now, North Korea was also a very important issue and the increasing threat from the North. Now, we have heard repeatedly from Washington that they   would like to see their two allies in the region move closer together. Now, we have seen and heard from both leaders that they are information sharing.   That there is more of a security sharing process when it comes to the missile threat from North Korea and that is certainly being welcomed by   Washington. Here`s President Yoon. YOON SUK YEOL, SOUTH KOREAN PRESIDENT (through translator): Prime Minister Kishida and I shared the recognition that North Korea`s nuclear and missile   development poses a grave threat to peace and stability not only on the Korean peninsula and Japan but also throughout the world. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten-second trivia:  The French word pain translates to which of these food items? Bread, milk, eggs or beans? On your grocery list, the French to English translation for pain is bread. Now, when it comes to finding authentic French bakeries, Rhode Island maybe not the first place you`d look. But looky here, one French baker named   Belinda Quinn will make you think a wee bit different about the Ocean State. She came from Paris, opened a bakery in Newport and her shop sells   out within hours of opening every weekend.  I sure hope my pate a croissants with it someday. Belinda, the French baker shares with us some of the secrets to the scrumptiousness of the pain au   chocolat. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BELINDA QUINN, CO-FOUNDER, LE BEC SURCE: We open at 7:00 and then we usually set out by 9:30, if not sometimes by 8:00, 8:30.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I come here pretty much every weekend. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I usually get here at around 6:30.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There`s always a line. I got here at 5:00 to 7:00 this morning, and there was already 20 people in line.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I had no idea that it would be so incredible.  QUINN: It is quite difficult to make a good pain au chocolat at home if we don`t have the equipment, the ingredients and also the patients. You have   to be really patient to make a good pain au chocolat. I met my husband in Paris and I decided to follow him and then to move to the U.S. When I came to Newport, my first impression was you the food it   was very different here and there is nothing for me authentic. So that`s why I decided I should really bring a touch of French. I knew that it would work because I knew that people they would know the difference. They would taste the quality. This is the day one when we mix all the ingredients and we make it into a dough. Day two, you do the lamination. You put -- you incorporate the   butter in the dough and then you shape the pain au chocolat.  It`s a French butter because there is a high content of fat. If you use the wrong type of butter, it won`t create any layers in the pastry.  All right, this is like 30 something layers. And then day three, it`s where you proof and you bake the particular. So what makes the perfect pain au chocolate for me is when you buy in it, you have to taste this crispy crunchy layer on top and then inside, you   have to have this very light and flaky dough, and then the taste of dark chocolate. Some people, they would just tell me, reading that this is like   being in Paris again. I am proud of my French culture. I wanted to create my Le Bec Sucre to have this taste of French. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Leonardo Da Vinci`s Mona Lisa is one of the best known artworks in the world, right? But one thing that hasn`t been known, the mystery of the   location shown in the background of the iconic 16th century painting. Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, the puzzle has potentially been   solved. Using virtual reconstruction and historical documents, art historian Silvano Vinceti claims the bridge behind Mona Lisa is the Romito Bridge in   the Tuscany region of Italy, in the town of Laterina.  Problem is the Tuscan village of Ponte Buriano nearby is so convinced that the Mona Lisa bridge is in their village, that they`ve made it a key   feature of their local tourism campaign. Looks like this mystery that`s been debated for centuries just got more heated. Did you know that the Mona Lisa was once accused of a crime? She was framed. Now, she`s in the Louvre Museum in Paris, seen by millions of   people every year. Our special shout out today is going to Winter Garden, Florida, West Orange High School.  Orange you`re glad you subscribe to our YouTube channel? Thanks for all the love and thanks for making us part of your day. Much love and many   blessings. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10.  END     

Date: 2023-05-10
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, hello. And welcome to Wednesday #YourWordWednesday. Follow me @coywire on Insta, Snapchat and TikTok and   put your unique vocabulary word in the comment section of my most recent post. And we`ll choose a winner to work in to tomorrow`s show. Let`s go.  We start today with the end of a controversial border policy. It`s called Title 42. It`s expected to expire tomorrow, May 11, and communities along   the U.S.-Mexico border are bracing for a surge that`s been months in the making. CNN took video from Mexico`s side of the border yesterday, and a   source says the U.S. government estimates more than 150,000 people in Mexico alone may be standing by to enter the U.S. when Title 42 expires.  Many politicians, like Texas Governor Greg Abbott, say the situation along the border is already overwhelming. The policy started at the beginning of   the COVID pandemic, allowing border officials to quickly turn away migrants at the U.S.-Mexico. border over concerns about the virus. Migrants were   either returned to their home countries or sent back to Mexico. According to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Agency, authorities have denied   migrants at the U.S. Southern border more than 2.8 million times since the policy began.  The policy is going away now as the Biden administration is ending the COVID public health emergency. The Department of Homeland Security released   a six-pillar plan that outlines the department`s operations post Title 42, including setting up additional facilities along the border to process   migrants. Still, there are many concerns. The House of Representatives are expected to vote tomorrow on Republicans wide ranging border security   package. The bill would, in part mandate that migrants remain in Mexico while going through the asylum process and beef up security at the southern   border and restart border wall construction. At the border, migrants are traveling through treacherous conditions at times, including battling extreme heat. Many are looking to enter America   for a chance for a better life. This week, CNN spoke up with a few migrants on their journey. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  She says they were four days on this train, she says, horrible, really cold.  He says four kids, his wife, four and a half days on the train.  He says, it`s for the American dream. And they`re going to try to cross today. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Now, how to handle the border is a divisive topic. As you can see, there are many concerns to consider. Emily Schmidt is reporting. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) EMILY SCHMIDT, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Migrant Demario Jones sees crossing the border as a singular mission.  DEMARIO JONES, MIGRANT FROM JAMAICA:  Just want to go to the U.S. to get a work, to change my life and live a good life.  SCHMIDT:  But border communities say an increase in migrants is an exponentially larger problem.  MAYOR DOUG NICHOLLS, (R) YUMA, ARIZONA:  This task is going to be too great. SCHMIDT:  Yuma`s mayor says a month ago, 300 people a day crossed the border near his community. Sunday, he says there were a thousand.  GOV. KATIE HOBBS, (D) ARIZONA:  The federal government is unprepared to meet the demands of the expected influx.  SCHMIDT:  The Governor of Texas launched a border response team because he claims the federal government isn`t doing enough.  GOV. GREG ABBOTT, (R) TEXAS:  While Texas is doing everything possible to try to stop people from crossing the border, at the very same time the   President of the United States is setting -- putting out the welcome act.  SCHMIDT:  Texas has bused migrants to places like New York City, which now wants to send some to nearby Rockland County, New York.  ED DAY, ROCKLAND COUNTY, EXECUTIVE:  We cannot put the needs of the people who are being sent here ahead of our own residents.  SCHMIDT:  The county executive declared a state of emergency, requiring New York City to cover costs of any migrants. Republicans in the House have put   forth a bill to extend current policies, but which the White House says would make the situation worse. KARINE JEAN-PIERRE, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY:  The bill, H.R.2 would be a disaster. For border security and a Christmas morning gift for human   smugglers.  SCHMIDT:  The bill is scheduled for a vote the same day Title 42 is scheduled to expire, and unlikely to pass the Democratic controlled Senate.   I`m Emily Schmidt reporting.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  With Title 42 expected to expire tomorrow and the expected surge in border crossings, the Biden administration is making plans to send an   additional 1500 active-duty troops to the U.S.-Mexico border in anticipation of the influx of migrants. As I mentioned earlier, the federal   government estimates that more than 150,000 migrants were waiting in shelters and in streets in northern Mexican states bordering the U.S. this   past weekend alone. Our Rosa Flores has more from the border.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Border communities across the U.S.-Mexico border already seeing a spike in migration, according to community leaders.   In Brownsville, one respite center went from receiving up to 300 migrants per day two weeks ago to a thousand. In McAllen, from 150 to 400. In Laredo   from 50 to 250 during the same time period, 25,000 migrants are in immigration custody, according to a Homeland Security official. And total   migrant encounters on the U.S. Southern border now surpasses 8000 per day.  And this is the scene by the border wall in El Paso where hundreds of people are way to turn themselves into immigration authorities, a flow   that`s expected to spike once Title 42 expires Thursday. And thousands more are already living on El Paso city streets. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This is ground zero for the immigration.  FLORES:  Pastor Timothy Pereya (ph) has been delivering between 900 and 1100 warm meals a day. As migrants here rely on the kindness of strangers   for everything.  RAUL ORTIZ, DEPUTY CHIEF, U.S. BORDER PATROL:  With respect to the DoD personnel. FLORES:  Border Patrol Chief Raul Ortiz says the 1500 active-duty troops deployed by the Biden administration to assist with administrative tasks   are headed to El Paso for now. ORTIZ:  I`m going to be able to reallocate those to some of the other sectors that require some additional capacity. So we`re going to be able to   balance that out. We`ve got a plan.  FLORES:  Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas says the administration`s border policies are not to blame.  ALEJANDRO MAYORKAS, HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY:  We urge Congress to fix our broken immigration system, and until then, we will do everything that   we can. FLORES:  While Washington squabbles about who is at fault, its border churches and nonprofits were left helping fill in the gaps.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Imagine if you could recreate some of the most delicious dishes from star chefs from around the world. Well, food technology startup CloudChef   is aiming to make this a reality using cameras and sensors in a chef`s kitchen so that their gustatory greatness can be replicated for a price, of   course. Let`s see what our Vanessa Yurkevich has cooking. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT:  Nikhil Abraham is on a mission to recreate some of the world`s finest dishes with some   computerized help.  NIKHIL ABRAHAM, CLOUDCHEF CO-FOUNDER, CEO:  What we did was build technology where a chef can come into one of our kitchens, be it from your   favorite restaurant in Paris or even from your grandmother. And we can then recreate this recipe without the chef.  YURKEVICH:  Abraham and his co-founders developed this specialized software and are putting it to use in a new startup kitchen called CloudChef.  ABRAHAM:  We start with Indian food because we were missing some of our favorite restaurants from back home. YURKEVICH:  Chef Annika Goldbulli (ph) is testing the technology, as she cooks sensors record the entire process, breaking it down into thousands of   data points.  ABRAHAM:  You have cameras looking at the contents of the pan, looking at colors, in some cases, textures. There are infrared cameras figuring out   how hot each individual item is.  YURKEVICH:  After her dish is recorded, it can be reproduced at any of the sensor powered stations. And the results. (On camera):  I can`t taste a difference in it. Literally everything is duplicated.  (Voice-over):  Chefs receive a royalty every time one of their dishes is ordered. Right now, CloudChef has dishes from Michelin starred chefs   available for pickup and delivery in Palo Alto, California. But they are looking to expand their kitchens and menus soon by bringing the world`s   greatest cuisine to your home.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. Australia gets its name from the Latin word Australis, meaning what? Island, Southern. Eastern, or Humid?  Australis means southern, which is befitting for the land down under.  Let`s head down under to Australia now, where some cool kangaroos are getting today`s 10 out of 10. Parts of southeastern Australia getting the   coldest day in May on record over the weekend. And kangaroos at Namagdi National Park were hopping in a winter wonderland. Winter in Australia   usually starts in June, so snowfall this early, wow. It`s pretty rare.  That`s about all we have time for today. Our special shout out goes to Western Hills University High School in Cincinnati, Ohio. We see you. Let`s   make this an awesome day. The most impactful factor determining our success over time is our state of mind. Stay humble, stay hungry and shine bright   today, baby. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-05-11
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey there. And happy Thursday. Hope you`re rocking and rolling, dominating the week. We`re almost at the end of it.   It`s Friday eve, so let`s keep going strong. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, and our top story today is the debt ceiling debate, a topic that it   continues to cause quite the kerfuffle between Republicans and Democrats on Capitol Hill. Quick recap the debt ceiling is the limit, the total amount of money that the U.S. government is authorized to borrow to meet its existing legal   obligations, paying for things like military salaries, Medicare benefits, Social Security, interest on national debt, and even tax refunds. That   credit limit currently sits at an eye-popping figure of more than $31 trillion. The debt ceiling was last raised in December of 2021, and that   ceiling is expected to last until at least this summer. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen even warned of a, "economic catastrophe" if the U.S. fails to raise its debt ceiling in the coming weeks. House   Republicans recently passed a bill to increase the debt limit by $1.5 trillion, but it`s expected that that proposal will get no love when it   gets to the Democratic controlled Senate. President Joe Biden hosted debt limit talks with congressional leaders at the White House on Tuesday. But did they break any new ground on the debt   ceiling negotiations? Our Lauren Fox was in Washington, D.C. And is reporting on the ongoing struggle between the parties.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JOE BIDEN, (D) U.S. PRESIDENT:  Folks, welcome.  LAUREN FOX, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  The path to avoiding a catastrophic default still unclear, even after yesterday`s hour-long Oval   Office meeting.  REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY, (R) HOUSE SPEAKER:  I didn`t see any new movement. The President said the staff should get back together, but I was very clear   with the president, we have now just two weeks to go.  FOX:  President Biden offering a different assessment.  BIDEN:  Everyone agreed that deficit to falling, the debt is off the table.  Oh, I know we have the time. I mean, we could do it easily if they -- if -- but we do we have the will? FOX:  Neither side appears to be budging. House Speaker Kevin McCarthy once again rejecting the President`s call to pass a clean bill to lift the debt   limit.  MCCARTHY:  Whatever goes forward is not just going to be raising the debt ceiling. It`s going to be just like we did in the House. We will raise the   debt ceiling with doing changes within our spending.  FOX:  House Republicans recently passed a bill to increase the debt limit by $1.5 trillion while cutting domestic programs to trim the deficit. It   has no path, however, of passing the Democratic controlled Senate.  SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER, (D) MAJORITY LEADER:  What`s really troubling about the Speaker`s position is, it`s a partisan bill, and he says, take it or leave   it, or we could default.  FOX:  President Biden contemplating a workaround to raise the debt ceiling without the help of Congress.  BIDEN:  I have been considering the 14th Amendment. And a man I have enormous respect for, Larry Tribe, who advised me for a long time, thinks   that it would be legitimate. But the problem is it would have to be litigated.  FOX:  Meanwhile, Senate Republicans indicating they`ll be staying on the sidelines with no plans to step in to try in broker deal.  SEN. MITT ROMNEY, (R) UTAH:  It`s time for the President of the United States to take action to make sure that we don`t have a default in the   debt. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next up, here comes the sun. Scientists say they`ve successfully produced a nuclear your fusion reaction, which replicates the processes   that happen on the sun and that they may have found the holy grail of clean energy. They aimed 192 powerful laser beams at a point, and it was at that   point that a star was born.  But, is it safe? Is it sustainable? And can we harness that energy in a way that we can then use it and become less dependent on burning fossil fuels   and less reliant on the current electrical grid? Our Bill Weir has more.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BILL WEIR, CNN CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT:  Inside this building, some very smart people built a star on Earth. Not the Hollywood kind. That`s easy.   No, the burning ball of gas in the sky kind. One of the hardest things human humans have ever tried. TAMMY MA, PHYSICIST, LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL LABORATORY:  I was at the airport when my boss called me and I burst into tears.  WEIR:  Tammy Ma is among the scientists who have been chasing nuclear fusion for generations.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Countdown for a shot. On my mark. Three, two, unmarked. WEIR:  And in the middle of a December night, they did it.  (On camera):  And you only need a tiny little bit of fuel? MA:  That`s right, yes. Because our little pellet that sits right in the middle, you can`t even see on this target, is just two millimeters in   diameter.  WEIR:  That target includes an abundant isotope found in seawater and goes into a chamber about the size of a beach ball in the 60s, but is now a   round room, 30 feet across with 192 massive lasers aimed at the center.  MA:  They`re big laser beams, about 40 by 40 centimeters. Each one alone is one of the most energetic in the world. Every time we do a shot, it`s a   thousand times the power of the entire U.S. Electrical grid.  WEIR:  Wow. MA:  But your lights don`t flicker at home when we take a shot. So we`re doing is taking a huge amount of energy and compressing it down, just in 10   nanoseconds.  WEIR:  Right.  MA:  So it`s about $14 of electricity.  WEIR:  The National Ignition Facility then amplifies all that concentrated energy on the target, and if they get it just right, more energy comes out   than went in, with no risk of nuclear meltdown or radioactive waste. MA:  In a fusion power plant, you would shoot the same target over and over at about ten times a second, dropping a target in and shooting it with   laser.  WEIR:  So you`d need a target loader. Like a machine gun or something, right? MA:  We need a target loader. Exactly. So there`s still many, many technology jumps that we need to make, but that`s what makes it so   exciting.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia.  Which of these NASA missions launched in 1977?  Skylab, Galileo, Voyager or Viking? Two unmanned spacecraft were launched as part of the Voyager missions in 1977. Speaking of those Voyager probes both lifted off into the galaxy on a   mission to observe and then transmit information back to Earth. Info pertaining to the planets and the farthest reaches of the Sun`s sphere of   influence. Now, many didn`t expect it. The twin spacecraft`s mission would still be going on today. Nearly 46 years later. CNN sat down with the   Voyager project Braintrust as they shared the steps they`re taking to ensure that this mission keeps going as long as possible. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SUZANNE DODD, VOYAGER PROJECT MANAGER, NASA JET PROPULSION LAB:  For aging spacecraft 46 years now, they`re actually very healthy.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We have liftoff of the Titan Centaur carrying the first of two Voyager spacecraft to extend man`s senses farther into the solar   system than ever before.  DODD:  From a scientific standpoint, what`s critical about Voyager today is the record of data that it`s taking from Earth, right, out through the   outer heliosheath, cross the heliopause, and as far into interstellar space as we can make that data last. Because we can see the changes in the data,   changes in the environment as we travel further and further away. They were identical at launch. Different things have failed on the spacecraft differently. So if you think of twins, one has lost its hearing   and needs some hearing aids, and another one has lost a bit of some sense of touch. But for aging spacecraft 46 years now, they`re actually very   healthy.  LINDA SPIKE, VOYAGER PROJECT SCIENTIST, NASA JET PROPULSION LAB:  Voyager has instruments remaining on and operating that can measure things like the   magnetic field, the electrons, protons, and the particles that are around the spacecraft. A lot going on in a place where you can`t really see the   particles, but still a lot that we can measure and learn about the environment outside this bubble that`s generated by the solar wind.  Slowly, one by one, we`ll turn off the science instruments. But even that last instrument that stays on and continues to take data will add to our   knowledge about a place that we`ve never been before.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a possible meteorite falling from outer space into someone`s bedroom. Ms. Suzy Kop from New Jersey found   this four by six-inch metallic rock in her dad`s room. She said it blasted through the ceiling and then appears to have bounced off the floor, back up   to the ceiling before settling beside the bed. And it was warm when she picked it up. Fortunately, no one was hurt.  Chief Astronomer at The Franklin Institute Derrick Pitts says it could be 4 to 5 billion years old.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DERRICK PITTS, CHIEF ASTRONOMER, THE FRANKLIN INSTITUTE:  It`s been running around in space all that time? And now it`s come to earth and it fell right   into their lapse. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Police in Hopewell Township are still investigating, but officials believe it could be from the current meteor shower going on. The Eta   Aquariid meteor shower is an annual phenomenon that occurs when the earth approaches a trail of dust and debris left by the famous Halley`s Comet in   the celestial event. It`s set to last through May 27.  Now, thanks to Reagan and Steven at Lincolnview Local Schools, you submitted the winner of #yourwordwednesday. Kerfuffle, did you hear it in   the show? It`s a noun meaning a commotion or fuss, especially one caused by conflicting views. Also, Macy from Lincolnview, (inaudible) was pretty good, too. Mill Creek Middle School in Woodstock, Georgia, you rock. We see you, Diamondbacks.   Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube channel. Tomorrow, I`ll see you right back here to finish this week strong. I`m Coy   Wire, and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-05-12
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello lovely people. Happy Friday, Friyay. We made it to the end of the week. Isn`t that sweet? I`m coming to you from   Orchard Park, New York, home of the Buffalo Bills, for a special project soon to come. We start today with an update on inflation, which is actually lower now than it was a year ago. So, what does that mean? Well, prices across all   goods and services have not gone down, but the pace of price increases has slowed. The latest Consumer Price Index, or CPI report is an indicator for the price of a weighted average of consumer goods and services purchased by   households. The report showed prices have been falling with appliances, health insurance and used cars. But Americans are still feeling pain with their bills, especially when it comes to groceries, car insurance and even daycare and preschool prices.   So, with the latest reports, are we now trending out of the inflation woes? Our Matt Egan has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MATT EGAN, CNN BUSINESS REPORTER:  The inflation fire hasn`t been put out, but it does increasingly look contained. Consumer prices jumping by 4.9%   year over year in April. That is the smallest increase in exactly two years. There have now been 10 consecutive months of cooling price gains. Unfortunately, though, the pace of the improvement has slowed. It`s basically leveled out even though it`s currently at a level that is more   than twice what the Fed is targeting. Now, on a month over month basis, inflation actually heated up between March and April, though, a lot of that   was driven by a spike in used car prices and that spike is not expected to last. I`m digging to the report, there were definitely some positives here, a record price drop on an annual basis for major appliances. And for health   insurance on an annual basis, used car prices are actually down. Grocery prices, they`re still going up rapidly, but even that has cooled off. On   the other hand, car insurance is up more than 15% over the last year. So if you put it all together, inflation is clearly moving in the right direction. But the pace of the progress has slowed. And it`s still too   early to declare victory on inflation. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. Which of these Canadian provinces is located along the Pacific coast? Quebec, Ontario, British Columbia or Alberta? The westernmost province of Canada is British Columbia, defined by its mountain ranges and Pacific coastline. Let`s head to British Columbia now to the Great Bear Rainforest, where the indigenous First Nation community has taken steps to protect their land,   marine and wildlife, which includes an extraordinary sighting of a white bear or spirit bear. These protections have impacted the ecosystem and the   community`s livelihoods in just a few short years. Our Bill Weir gives us a tour from that stunning region. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BILL WEIR, CNN CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT:  Behold the Great Bear rainforest, stretching for 250 miles of beautiful solitude along the coast of British   Columbia as part of the largest intact coastal temperate rainforest in the world. It is a wilderness, the size of Ireland and home to one of the most   extraordinary creatures on the planet. DOUGLAS DEASLOSS, CHIEF COUNCILOR, KITASOO/XAI`XAIS FIRST NATION:  The spirit bear is something that`s really unique. When you get a pure white   bear coming out of a dark green forest, it just looks really magical. And so, we want to protect that. WEIR:  Spirit bears are actually a subspecies of black bear that due to double recessive gene aren`t black at all. But this rare species is just   one piece of a vital wilderness. DEASLOSS:  The Great Bear Rainforest is extremely special. I mean, I think it`s probably one of the most biodiverse places on the planet. You still   get wild things like bears and wolves and abundance of salmon and a bunch of different sea life. You still have old growth forests, and so we want to   keep it like that. WEIR:  In the heart of this remote expanse is the town of Klemtu, home to a community of the Kitasoo/Xai`xais First Nation, who`ve lived and thrived in   this region for thousands of years. DEASLOSS:  This river is right close to the community. We get three species of salmon that come up this river, and this is their spawning ground. WEIR:  According to a recent report published by the Kitasoo/Xai`xais, this rich ecosystem suffered from 100 years of unsustainable extraction fish,   wildlife and forests from outside interest. DEASLOSS:  So right now, we`re just getting ready to enter Kitasoo Bay, and that`s the area probably the most important area. WEIR:  In June of 2022, they announced the creation of a marine protected area to preserve the herring stalks that are so vital to both wildlife and   the community. DEASLOSS:  Kitasoo Bay was declared by the military chiefs. It was supported by the community, and it was launched so the rest of the world   knows about it. We`ve engaged provincial governments, federal governments. We`ve engaged stakeholders, letting everyone know that it`s closed. We`ve   left the document open to collaborating. WEIR:  But the push to reverse a century`s worth of degradation actually started more than two decades ago. In 2000, they released their own land   and resource protection and management plan aimed at building an economy based on conservation and non-extractive activities like ecotourism. DEASLOSS:  I think Indigenous knowledge is super important, and I think it needs to be integrated, whether it`s wildlife management, fisheries   management, ocean management. You know, I think right now we are in a new era of collaboration. We`re in this era of reconciliation. And how do we work together? How do indigenous   people and non-indigenous people work together? WEIR:  Neighboring First Nations first came together in 2012 to issue a ban on trophy hunting of bears. And five years later, thanks to indigenous led   research and analysis, the British Columbian government banned the hunting of grizzly bears across the entire province. DEASLOSS:  That was huge, but we knew we weren`t quite finished yet. WEIR:  In July of 2022, just a month after the marine protected area was announced, the government agreed to put a stop to black bear hunting as   well. And First Nation leaders say they`ve now managed to protect half of their territory. DEASLOSS:  We`ve been working with different levels of government, different levels of stakeholders. It`s been a lot of negotiation, a lot of   debates, a lot of science, a lot of collaboration. And I would say, yeah, 2022 is probably the first high end that we`re able to see some significant   progress on some of these files. We have a belief that if you take care of the land, the land will take care of you. And so that`s ingrained in all of   our work here. It doesn`t matter if it`s in stewardship, if it`s in tourism, if it`s in economic development. We want to make sure that we`re   looking at long-term, sustainable industries, and we want to make sure that we have a place that the world can enjoy. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, for all you video game lovers out there, check this video out. As the U.S. Navy is actually training sea lions to play video games is   today`s story getting a 10 out of 10. Meet Spike, one of three sea lions learning cognitive enrichment training for the U.S. Navy marine mammal   program. This avid gamer became the first Seal to complete this training as he uses his snout to press a button and maneuver a cursor through a maze. His eyes   track the cursor with laser-like focus. The U.S. Navy employs more than 120 mammals in this program, all of which are trained in reconnaissance and   recovery tasks. All right, it`s time to seal the deal on this awesome week. We want to make sure that you wish all your mothers out there a Happy Mother`s Day this   week. And if you haven`t written a card or gotten a gift yet don`t forget. Our special shout out is going to East Middle School in Butte, Montana. Rise up as we you out with some visuals from the stories we`ve learned   together this past week. Remember, shine bright this weekend. Wherever you go, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. It`s   been a blessing to spend this week with you. END 

Date: 2023-05-15
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello everyone. I`m Coy Wire, and welcome to a special extended edition of CNN 10. Now, you may not know this, but this   program that you`re watching right now started all the way back in 1989 when CNN launched a news program designed for the classroom.  A year later, though, tensions in the Persian Gulf would result in the first major international crisis since the Cold War. In August 1990, Saddam   Hussein, the leader of Iraq, ordered an invasion of neighboring Kuwait with the apparent goal of controlling the nation`s oil reserves.  The U.S. led response would set the precedent for the use of military force for decades to come. On the brink of what would be known as the Gulf War,   journalists were urged to leave Iraq. CNN stayed and became the first network to live broadcast a war.  In this special edition of CNN 10, we`ll look back and hear CNN news anchor Bernard Shaw famously say the skies of Baghdad are being illuminated and   relive the tense moments during the CNN broadcast as journalists hid under beds to stay live on the air, bombs falling around the city. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It was January 1991, the U.S. economy was sinking into recession. Mob boss John Gotti, The Teflon Don had recently been arrested   on charges that would lead to life imprisonment. Macaulay Culkin faced off with criminals in the first home alone. And President George H.W. Bush   edged towards war in the Persian Gulf. Then one early January morning in Baghdad CNN reported that the sky --  BERNARD SHAW, CNN ANCHOR: The skies over Baghdad have been illuminated. We`re seeing bright planes of missile. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And an explosive development near the Persian Gulf, word that Iraq has invaded neighboring State of Kuwait with fighting reported   along the border, the residents say that they were awakened by machine gunfire and heavy artillery. For weeks, 100,000 Iraqi troops have been   reported massing near the border. Arab countries have been trying this month to defuse this building crisis.  In Washington, the White House is condemning the invasion, calling for Iraq to withdraw its forces immediately. The U.S. is also calling for an   emergency U.N. Security Council session.  JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT: The Security Council passed sanctions no more trade with Iraq, a boycott of Iraqi oil, a ban on arms   sales, a ban on financial aid and investment. But will the sanctions work?  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Today, America stops mulling over its options, reportedly sending United States warplanes and combat troops into Saudi   Arabia.  GEORGE H. W. BUSH, PRESIDENT: We seek the immediate, unconditional and complete withdrawal of all Iraqi forces from Kuwait.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: From the beginning of the Gulf crisis, the underlying rationale for stopping Saddam Hussein has been oil. The oil dependent world   doesn`t want a single man with a big army to control the flow from the Gulf.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: With the Operation Desert Shield deadline less than three weeks away, diplomats and journalists are ready to leap at any trace   of activity that might lead to the bargaining table.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Unless Saddam Hussein withdraws from Kuwait by late winter, the U.S. will go to war.  DAVID FRENCH, CNN HOST: The Bush White House now says war with Iraq could begin at any moment. It took six months to come to this, but as our Senior   White House Correspondent Charles Bierbauer reports, President Bush believed early on in this crisis that it would ultimately be settled with   force. CHARLES BIERBAUER, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: White House officials say even now, Saddam Hussein could avoid a war with a massive   pullout of his forces. And yet the Bush administration does not expect that.  CHARLES JACO, CNN SAUDI ARABIA: Good evening, or rather good morning from Saudi Arabia, where it`s now a quarter after two in the morning. The latest   briefing we`ve received from the military command here in Saudi Arabia was on the number of troops here and apparently there`s a total of 425,000 U.S.   Troops here. That`s an increase of 10,000 over the last time we were briefed. The total multinational force here on the ground is about 690,000.  FRENCH: With us now is Caspar Weinberger, Secretary of Defense during both Reagan administrations. Mr. Secretary, thank you for coming.  CASPAR WEINBERGER, SECRETARY OF DEFENSE: Thank you.  FRENCH: Secretary Weinberger, you were credited with the military buildup which is being put to use but there is one area which has come to a lot of   criticism. We have to go to Baghdad, Secretary. We`re going to Bernard Shaw in Baghdad.  SHAW: This is -- something is happening outside. Peter Arnett joined me here. What`s -- let`s describe to our viewers what we`re seeing. The skies   over Baghdad have been illuminated. We`re seeing bright flashes going off all over the sky. Peter?  PETER ARNETT, CNN REPORTER: Well, there`s antiaircraft gunfire going into the sky. However, we have not yet heard the sound of bombs landing, but   there`s tremendous lightning in the sky.  SHAW: I have a sense, Peter, that people are shooting towards the sky and they are not aware or cannot see what they`re shooting at. This is   extraordinary. We`re getting starbursts, seeming starbursts in the black sky. We have not heard any jet plane jet, Peter. ARNETT: No plane. Now these sirens are sounding for the first time. The Iraqis have informed us.  FRENCH: Well, we heard Peter Arnett, our saying the Iraqis have informed us and then we didn`t hear anymore. This is probably just a technical glitch.   They have four wires there that they can use and those wires can be easily severed or pulled.  Wolf, what have you for us at this moment?  WOLF BLITZER, CNN MILITARY AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Strong indications here at the Pentagon that this war may be beginning right now. That the   President may be going on television later this evening to explain what exactly is going on. We`ve been thinking --  FRENCH: Wolf, let me -- Wolf, let me interrupt -- I`m sorry to interrupt, but we`re going back to Baghdad now, because we can and we Peter Arnett. JOHN HOLLIMAN, CNN REPORTER: We are thinning to them.  FRENCH: Please come into us from Baghdad. This is David French in Washington. HOLLIMAN: Hello, Baghdad? ARNETT: Line is dead. They just cut the line.  FRENCH: All right, we`ve lost that for the moment. Back to the Pentagon again. Wolf, you were just reporting that there is new activity level --  HOLLIMAN: Hello Atlanta? Atlanta, this is Holliman. I don`t know whether you`re able to hear me now or not, but I`m going to continue to talk to you   as long as I can. There have been some sirens here tonight, but we still have seen no signs of any airplane coming in here. All we are seeing is the   Iraqi response from the ground. Many trace arounds that you can perhaps hear the sound of bombs in the background. I`m going to put our microphone   out the window, I think you`ll be able to hear this sound.  The night sky of Baghdad, the time here about 20 minutes until 3:00 in the morning. I`m getting away from the window. I`m going to turn off the   microphone for one moment in an attempt to see if we can hear Atlanta and get some response from CNN down the line.  FRENCH: All right, we`re not immediately able to pick up to resume that sound from John Holliman`s position, so we will now return to the Pentagon,   where Wolf Blitzer has some more for us. Wolf?  BLITZER: Yes, David. Only moments ago, before I came into the studio here at the Pentagon, I had a chance to see two very Senior Pentagon officials   almost running through the halls, going up to Secretary Cheney`s office. Let`s go back to Baghdad and see what John Holliman is reporting, in the   meantime. HOLLIMAN: There`s a response here as if the city were under attack. The night sky filled with a hail of bullets and from antiaircraft guns, and off   in the distance you can hear what appears to be bombs of some kind hitting the ground, or perhaps artillery shells hitting the ground. There are loud   reports, and you can feel the building of this very well-built hotel shaking underneath us as the attack apparently continues.  Hi there, is it possible to call United States, please?  FRENCH: An open microphone from Baghdad, from the hotel now being -- hotel room now being left, we believe, by Bernard Shaw, Peter Arnett, John   Holliman and their support staff there. There is a bomb shelter in that hotel. We heard them report earlier today.  Back to the Pentagon, and Wolf Blitzer.  BLITZER: David, all day long we`ve been hearing rumors that the attack would start at night, Baghdad time, that the attack, if it did come, would   try to take advantage of U.S. night fighting equipment, especially with the radar evading stealth fighters. And that is backed up by indications that   we`re getting here in the Pentagon of stepped-up activity among the senior civilian and military staff.  FRENCH: Wolf, we can still hear John Holliman in Baghdad. And we`ll go listen, and he can`t hear me, but we can hear him. All right, we`re told he   can. Let`s listen now. HOLLIMAN: David, a miracle has happened. We are now able to hear you as well. My colleague Peter Arnett and I are here at our CNN Baghdad Bureau.   You have no idea, David French, how nice it is to hear your voice on this remarkable night. Peter, let`s tell our viewers what`s happened here.   You`ve had a lot of experience with being under attack, of course, from Vietnam and other places.  ARNETT: The antiaircraft weapons in the city center where we are living around the government buildings, erupted in fire. There must have been 200   guns firing to the sky. We did not see any aircraft around, but we did hear the alarm sirens. About two minutes after that, there were loud explosions,   obviously bombing in at least three parts of the outskirts of the city.  We have no idea what those targets were, but they were in the direction of the airport and some military barracks. And the bombing has not come in   this far yet. The attack did begin about 02:30 a.m. our time. Now here in the hotel, the Al Rasheed Hotel where we are. There was some indication   earlier this evening, some of our colleagues received calls from friends who said tonight, maybe the night will be --  FRENCH: Peter? ARNETT: -- for the multinational force to begin its strike. FRENCH: Peter Arnett? ARNETT: -- and strike against Iraq and tonight it has come, John? HOLLIMAN: That`s right, Peter. I think it would be good for those of us in Baghdad to turn off our microphone for just a moment. We have our CNN   colleagues, of course, all over the world. Perhaps David French may be able to tell us as much about what they know about this potential attack as we   can tell looking out our window. FRENCH: John, I think you might have thrown it to me. I couldn`t tell. But if you did, we have a radio pool report in from John Bascom (ph). He`s   reporting that a squadron of F-15 fighter bombers has taken off from a base in central Saudi Arabia. The fighters, designed for long range bombing at   night, were completely loaded with bombs, according to this report, with missiles and with 20-millimeter guns.  ARNETT: I was looking out the window earlier, John, and --  HOLLIMAN: Oh, Peter, look over here.  ARNETT: There is a sky is lighting up, I guess, to the south with antiaircraft fire, some as bright red, other as flashes of yellow light.   What seems clear is that city is well defended with antiaircraft fire, and we can only presume that because they have started up again with   considerable rapidity, that there is another attack coming in.  HOLLIMAN: We just heard whoa, holy cow. That was a large airburst that we saw. It was filling the sky. It`s a --  ARNETT: And I think, John, that airburst took out the telecommunications. Now you may hear the bombs now. If you`re still with us, you`re going to   hear the bombs now. They are hitting the center of this city.  We`re crouched behind a window here. We`re about 3 miles from where the center of action at this point seems to be.  HOLLIMAN: It`s good to have a colleague like Peter Arnett to help out, I`ll tell you that. My experience at being under attack is very limited, I`m   proud to say. But I think by the time the sun comes up tomorrow, my experience will be much improved in this regard. We have a CNN Cameraman,   Mark Biello, by the way, is taking pictures of this. And as soon as we`re able to establish a video link to you, which we`re sure won`t be anytime   soon, but will be hours from now, we`ll be able to show you the pictures that we`re talking about right now.  FRENCH: John and Peter, we`re going to the White House for just a minute. Presidential Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater is about to address the nation and   therefore the world.  MARLIN FITZWATER, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: I have a statement by the President of the United States. Deliberation of Kuwait has begun. In   conjunction with the forces of our coalition partners, the United States has moved under the code name, Operation Desert Storm to enforce the   mandates of the United Nations Security Council.  As of 07:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time, Operation Desert Storm forces were engaging targets in Kuwait and Iraq. President Bush will address the nation   at 09:00 p.m. tonight from the Oval Office. I`ll try to get you more as soon as we can. Thank you very much, everyone.  HOLLIMAN: OK, Peter, we`re back.  ARNETT: I think what is most interesting to me, John, is that these bombs seem right on target. During the Vietnam War, there was a major problem   with bombing targets in North Vietnam. Many bridges survived for years. Tonight, every bomb we have seen land seemed to have hit something. It --   they have these laser directed the guided bomb systems now which seem to be proving effective here tonight.  We`ve been waiting for this to happen since the deadline on the U.N. ultimatum passed at 08:00 yesterday morning in Baghdad and certainly is the   day progressed. It was clear here that the authorities seemed to be preparing for some kind of action. I`m sure they didn`t have any kind of   advanced word. But as I speak to you the anti-aircraft fire has started up again and there is another wave of planes presumably coming in. We have yet   to see the bombs fall but it`s the same pattern of the previous at least three rays that we have witnessed.  SHAW: Wherever you are following CNN`s coverage of this, our colleagues in Washington and our colleagues in Saudi Arabia obviously know a lot more   than we know but we are on the receiving end of it. I just want to add one thing to everybody that we are safe, relatively speaking Peter and there is   no sense of an immediate threat to our lives. Do you concur with that?  ARNETT: I would concur with that. I think we`re safe enough here for the time being. Within a minute we can get to a shelter downstairs.  SHAW: John, it occurs to me that this attack is going to just shake the psyches of the Baghdadis here. This is unprecedented and I`m really anxious   for daybreak to come so that we can get out and see what has been wrought here.  HOLLIMAN: Right, daybreak is only 4 hours away and if we make it that long we`ll certainly be able to do that.  FRENCH: Richard Blystone is standing by in Jerusalem.  RICHARD BLYSTONE, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: The streets are unnaturally quiet. The Israeli government, of course, does know about it. The Prime   Minister says he has been informed. The military will be making a statement very soon. The radio here now is broadcasting CNN live. The Foreign   Ministry also is watching CNN. A lot of people now are getting their news from CNN.  HOLLIMAN: Something has changed, David. All the lights in the city of Baghdad are now out, from everything we can tell. My colleague Bernard Shaw   is with me as we look out on this now dark city. It`s absolutely pitch black.  SHAW: We are confined to the hotel. We can give this report tonight because we`re on the 9th floor of the Al Rasheed Hotel, which has a commanding view   of this very flat city to the north, south, east, and west. And for about the last two hours, there has been enormous activity, and now we hear   planes actually going over here.  HOLLIMAN: Yeah, well, I`ll see if I can see anything. All right. There`s a plane nearby. Bernie, you can see something, right?  SHAW: All right. It`s broken out on either side of us here at the hotel. And I`m just going to be quiet and let you listen.  HOLLIMAN: This is the heaviest raid so far, so close in. Maybe the outskirts have been pounded this way, but certainly several planes came   right over the hotel and hit targets within a mile and a half of us. Bernie, what do you see on the other side of the hotel?  SHAW: Hey, I just come back from the other side. I`m really wearing out trousers here, crawling on my knees and hands. But, gentlemen, does it   occur to you that it is not accidental that we are still reporting to the world?  HOLLIMAN: This government has told us frequently, including the Information Minister last night, that he wanted the press to stay here. In fact, he   expressed anger that some of the press had left. He said, the International Press says it covers human rights. It should be here to see what the United   States, the multinational force, is going to do. Now, I don`t see any government officials around here tonight to assist us. But they have said   that we can work here. And up to now this has to be unique that we are continuing to cover this story to talk to you, despite a series of major   impact bombing raids. Well, I`m anxious for daylight to come. Maybe we can get some visibility.  Peter, look at this. This is a bright flash of light that seems to be it came across from north to south and even came up here bias in the hotel.   And there it goes out of -- almost like a shooting star.  ARNETT: I think that shooting star is probably an S-15, John?  HOLLIMAN: Yeah.  FRENCH: We have temporarily lost contact with Baghdad. I don`t wish to alarm anyone. We did expect to have this come in and out, but our three   correspondents, Bernard Shaw, Peter Arnett and John Holliman are there in the Al Rasheed Hotel. We expect to and we hope to be bringing you some more   of their reports later.  I`m pleased to report that we can go back to Baghdad now. And our three correspondents there, let`s see who picks up the phone.  SHAW: Just to explain to our viewers why you did not hear from us for a nervously long time. For the past 20 minutes, I`ve been hiding under a   table. And what happened was the security people made a sweep. They got very upset that there were three mortals on this floor as just three men   standing in a hotel room. So I scampered to hide to make sure that if they pulled Arnett and Holliman out and took them downstairs into custody, at   least there would still be one CNN person on the air. John? HOLLIMAN: I did the same thing you did, Bernie. Only I hid under a bed. And it`s amazing that somebody`s large as I am can get under a bed that close   to the ground. But I was able to do it at least. And these security fellows also took some of the videotape out of one of our cameras. They say we`ll   get it back tomorrow. I`m a little skeptical that we will, but it was the beautiful pictures that we took to go along with the commentary that you   heard earlier tonight on CNN.  SHAW: You keep using that word beautiful. This is not beautiful to me.  GEORGE H.W. BUSH, PRESIDENT: Just two hours ago, allied air forces began an attack on military targets in Iraq and Kuwait. These attacks continue as I   speak. Ground forces are not engaged. Tonight, 28 nations, countries from five continents, Europe and Asia, Africa and the Arab League have forces in   the Gulf area standing shoulder to shoulder against Saddam Hussein.  These countries had hoped the use of force could be avoided. Regrettably, we now believe that only force will make him leave. I`ve told the American   people before that this will not be another Vietnam. And I repeat this here tonight, our troops will have the best possible support in the entire world. And they will not be asked to fight with one   hand tied behind their back. We have no argument with the people of Iraq.  Indeed, for the innocents caught in this conflict, I pray for their safety. Our goal is not the conquest of Iraq. It is the liberation of Kuwait.  ARNETT: This is Peter Arnett in Baghdad, Iraq, 17 hours after the bombing.  So for John Holliman and Bernie Shaw and myself, Peter Arnett here is signing off from Baghdad for CNN and I hope we can resume our communication   with you in the very near future.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The best reporting that I`ve seen on What Transpired in Baghdad was on CNN. END 

Date: 2023-05-16
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, everyone. Hope it`s shaping up to be a terrific Tuesday. Let`s make this teacher time Tuesday, shall we? Shout out   to all the educators out there uplifting, informing, and inspiring students. Go on and dap up your teacher. Give a handshake or high five. Let   them know you appreciate all they do.  All right, lots to get to today, but only 10 minutes to do it, so let`s get to it. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we start with the end of Title 42.  Last week, we told you about the looming expiration of Title 42, the policy set by the Trump administration at the start of the COVID pandemic,   allowing migrants to be quickly expelled at the U.S. Southern border without a chance to ask for asylum. The policy expired last Thursday night,   along with the national coronavirus public health emergency.  With this expiration, there were major concerns about a massive surge of migrants at the border. But according to Homeland Security Secretary   Alejandro Mayorkas, the number of migrants at the U.S. Southern border is, "markedly down" over what they were prior to the end of Title 42.  Now, even though the number of people coming in may be lower than what federal officials were bracing for, communities at the southern border,   well, they`re still on high alert. Ed Lavandera has more.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ED LAVANDERA, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  After Title 42 ended late Thursday night, some migrants discovered they didn`t make it in time.  This father and son from Venezuela were turned away, but he says the goal is to get to the other side to find a way to reach the United States. But   we`ll have to wait and figure it out.  ALEJANDRO MAYORKAS, HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY:  We`ve been very, very clear that there are lawful, safe and orderly pathways to seek relief in   the United States. And if one arrives at our southern border, one is going to face tougher consequences.  LAVANDERA:  In the days leading up to last night`s deadline, border officials saw a surge of migrants. More than 23,000 are now in CBP custody,   down slightly from earlier this week. But the end of Title 42 did not trigger the historic wave of migrants rushing to cross the border Friday   that was predicted. In El Paso, thousands were waiting to be processed outside a border gate.  CHIEF RAUL ORTIZ, U.S. BORDER PATROL:  We`re prioritizing those most vulnerable populations. We`re doing this as quickly and as efficiently and   as safely as we possibly can.  LAVANDERA:  That number now down to a couple hundred, says the city`s mayor.  MAYOR OSCAR LEESER, EL PASO, TEXAS:  After yesterday`s spike at about 1800 that came in yesterday, we`ve not seen any additional big numbers come in   through the El Paso sector.  JOHN MARTIN, EL PASO, TEXAS:  We had lean-tos or tents, whatever term you want to use, literally all along the wall.  LAVANDERA:  John Martin runs a network of shelters in El Paso and said the crowds have dramatically dwindled in recent days.  MARTIN:  As of about 11:00 o`clock this morning, we had no new arrivals.  LAVANDERA:  While he was surprised at the lack of influx the morning after Title 42 lifted, he doesn`t expect it will stay this way.  MARTIN:  I have to admit it`s nice to be able to breathe one more time, but we can`t let our guard down because we still know it`s coming.  LAVANDERA (on camera):  In January U.S. Customs and Border Protection opened this massive tent processing facility in the El Paso area, about 20   miles from the U.S.-Mexico border. It`s designed to be able to hold about 1000 migrants at a time. And as you can see, construction crews are working   to expand. And we`re told by CBP officials in June they`ll have room for another 1000 migrants to hold at this facility.  (Voice-over):  In Brownsville, dozens of buses line up near an intake facility, but a major humanitarian group in the area tells CNN they only   had one bus of migrants arrive today. About 155,000 migrants were estimated to be in shelters and on streets in Mexico waiting to enter the U.S. A   source familiar with federal estimates said migrants will still risk their lives to make it to the U.S. And from now on, people who cross the border   illegally will face a tougher path to requesting asylum. Many will be deported, like this group who were shackled and led onto a repatriation   flight, like this one, leaving for Guatemala on Thursday.  (On camera):  In the days leading up to the end of Title 42, this alleyway, be kind of migrant shelter in El Paso was packed with migrants sleeping   outside. All of that has changed. And what several migrant advocates tell us is that for now, they think that migrants on the Mexican side of the   border are reassessing the border landscape, trying to figure out when the next best opportunity might be to cross into the U.S. Ed Lavandera, CNN, El   Paso, Texas.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today we are going to spotlight an inspiring young woman named Yasmine Arrington who knows firsthand the challenges of growing up while   having a parent who`s incarcerated. Gaining strength through her struggles, Yasmine started a nonprofit group called ScholarCHIPS. CHIPS is an acronym   standing for Children of Incarcerated Parents. The organization provides scholarships, mentoring, and a network of support. Meet our CNN hero,   Yasmine Arrington.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) YASMINE ARRINGTON:  My father has been in and out of jail, in prison my entire life. My father`s incarceration has certainly affected me on a   personal level, emotionally, mentally. Many young people who have incarcerated parents definitely feel stigmatized and marginalized.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Are you looking at me? What are you looking at? Probably or some cookies.  ARRINGTON:  I was 13 years old when my mother passed away. I was raised by my maternal grandmother. And my grandmother is a big advocate of education.   She knew that college was coming down the pike for me, but, you know, there was no college fund.  My grandmother began researching various scholarships online that I would be eligible for. She said, I don`t see any for young people like yourself   who have incarcerated parents. And I kept that in my mind. When I was a junior, I went through a social entrepreneurship program for teenagers, and   we had to come up with a social venture. So I pitched ScholarCHIPS. And the CHIPS, of course, is an imperfect acronym for Children of Incarcerated   Parents.  And the judges, they love the idea. And so here I was, 16 years old, with $1,000 seed grant. I wasn`t even old enough to have a bank account.  ScholarCHIPS is a nonprofit organization that provides college scholarships, mentoring, mental health supports, and a robust support   network to college bound young adults who have incarcerated parents. The main objective is to help directly address the financial gap and challenges   that many of our scholars face.  Our scholars are provided with brand new laptops. We also have an emergency fund. And so when scholars have unexpected challenges that come up, we   definitely step in to help.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Hi.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Hello, there. How are we doing?  ARRINGTON:  Our scholars have the option to opt in to being matched with a mentor who wants to be a cheerleader and a champion. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I mean, let`s remember this journey, right? Just lean into it and let it just wash over. This is really good stuff.  ARRINGTON:  They have someone who has already been through college and the process that they`re currently going through.  Tiana (ph), hi.  I do personally check in with our scholars. Getting ready for graduation? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Yeah. ARRINGTON: I  know, congratulations. I`m so excited.  The checkings are very helpful because oftentimes we will discover a need that a scholar has that we otherwise didn`t know.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  A judgy traffic light that only lets you pass if you`re driving, right? Well, that`s today`s story getting a 10 out of 10. This traffic   light is watching you, monitoring your speed as you`re passing through. If you`re under the limit, ding, ding, ding. Good job. Keep going. You can get   your green. But you`ll feel the shame if you drive too fast. A red light, you shall not pass. This is all part of an experiment in Canada, in a   suburb of Montreal. The light is also gathering information regarding traffic flow and driver behavior and then relays this information to the   city for analysis. In addition to making people ponder poor life choices by forcing them to slow down and stop at a red light. Now that`s breaking   news.  Today`s specials out is going to Piedmont, South Carolina, Wren Middle School, you rock. Thank you for everyone who`s subscribed and have been   commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube Channel. Much love, right back at you. Make it an awesome day, everybody. I`ll see you tomorrow. I`m Coy Wire, and   we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-05-17
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, and it is your CNN 10, especially on a #yourwordwednesday. Follow me   @coywire on Insta, Snapchat and TikTok, and put your unique vocabulary word in the comment section of my most recent post. And we`ll choose a winner to   work into tomorrow`s show. Let`s go.  We start today with the latest negotiations on the debt ceiling. Last week, we told you the debt ceiling is the limit. The total amount of money the   U.S. government is authorized to borrow to meet its legal obligations. It`s currently more than $31 trillion. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen   reiterated that the government could run out of money to pay its bills by June 1 if Congress doesn`t raise the debt limit soon. With time running out to strike a debt limit deal, President Biden and congressional leaders met yesterday for a pivotal face to face meeting at   the White House. President Biden says that raising the limit is a responsibility of Congress, and most Democrats argue that the debt limit   should be raised without any sort of conditions in order to avoid an economic disaster. Most Republicans, though, well, they don`t want to raise that debt ceiling anymore until federal spending cuts are part of the deal. Over the weekend,   the White House was cautiously optimistic about a potential agreement between the two sides, but House Speaker Kevin McCarthy continued to   express doubts on Monday. Our Manu Raju is on Capitol Hill with more.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Speaker Kevin McCarthy had been pessimistic as talks have occurred on the staff level for the past   week to try to avoid the nation`s first ever debt default. McCarthy has been calling for talks for some time. The White House has resisted calling   for the national debt limit, which is more than $31 trillion, to be raised without any conditions, whatsoever, to avoid the prospects of the United   States not being able to pay its bills. McCarthy has rejected that approach, called for spending cuts to be attached with raising the national borrowing limit. The House did pass a   bill to do just that, included a host of Republican priorities. The Democrats and the White House say that is dead on arrival. So where does it   go? There is not much time left in order to get a deal by that potential June 1 deadline to avoid this default. McCarthy made clear that there is a   long way to go. REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY, (R) HOUSE SPEAKER:  I appreciate the President finally willing to talk after 97 days, but there is no movement. We`re only a   couple of weeks away, and if you look at the timeline, to pass something in the House and pass something in the Senate, you`ve got to have something   done by this weekend and we are nowhere near any of that. RAJU:  Now, even if they were to get some sort of deal, it will take some time in order to put it on paper, in order to draft it into legislative   text, in order to go through the House and the Senate. All that takes a significant amount of time, which is raising a lot of concerns about   whether or not they will actually be able to get there. As debt default looms over Washington. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia.  What 1940s character symbolized women joining the U.S. workforce?  Susan B. Anthony, Rosie the Riveter, Betsy Ross, or Sally Ride? Rosie the Riveter was used to encourage women to join the workforce during World War II.  Decades after Rosie the Riveter became a symbolic icon for working women in World War II, Ukrainian women are bravely stepping up. Ukrainian men and   while they`re being forced to leave their jobs because of mandatory military service, to fight in a war against Russia. As the war continues   on, Ukrainian officials say their capital city of Kyiv was hit by a, "exceptional attack" early Tuesday, but their air defenses destroyed most   of the missiles and drones lost by Russia. With many important and sometimes dangerous jobs being vacated while men fight in the war, Ukrainian women are rallying to keep things running. Our   Nic Robertson is in Ukraine with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  War is changing everything. Tetiana is at the vanguard, shattering Ukrainian coal mining   history. A woman on her way to work 1000 feet underground.  (On camera):  It`s normal. It`s OK now?  TETIANA, COAL MINER:  Yes.  ROBERTSON:  Yes, it`s good. Is it good? You like it, huh?  TETIANA:  Yes, I wanted it.  ROBERTSON:  You wanted to be miner? TETIANA:  Yes, yeah. ROBERTSON:  Yeah. Your family, your grandfather, your father was minor? TETIANA:  Yes. ROBERTSON:  Yeah, yeah. (Voice-over):  She used to work above ground. But when miners got called up to fight and martial law cleared women for dangerous jobs, she jumped at a   job deep in the mine. TETIANA (through translator):  I always wanted to work here. But girls were not allowed. When many men were conscripted, the mine had to keep working.   So to protect our country, the girl stepped up.  ROBERTSON:  She wants to keep her underground job when the war is over. But that may not be so easy, yet even Chief Engineer Alexander admits without   Tetiana and many other women, the mine could not have kept going. (On camera):  There hasn`t been a general mobilization of women, but plenty of traditional male only workplaces are finding women, stepping up and   taking jobs that before the war would have only gone to men.  (Voice-over):  Maria is among them. For the love of Ukraine and of her husband. She took up his blacksmith job when he got called up to fight last   year. They bought the forge together a few years earlier, invested their future in it.  MARIA KOBETS, BLACKSMITH, KOBETS FORGE (through translator):  This is my husband`s passion and his life`s business. I decided to support him, to   keep his job alive while he is serving.  ROBERTSON:  She shows me a video of husband Andre working at the same anvil prewar his artwork, some Game of Thrones themed selling in the U.S. and   Europe for hundreds of dollars. KOBETS (through translator):  I often cry in the forge here. My husband is defending us and that is very dangerous. But this work helps me to hold on   and not fall apart.  ROBERTSON:  Women have been here before. Remember Rosie the Riveter, icon of women at work in World War II? She and others cracked the glass ceiling.   More than a hint of Rosie in Maria and perhaps of changes here too. Maria, Tetiana, two of many who bravely stepped up. No doubt more challenges   ahead. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Now, for those of you who saw my social media posts on Monday and asked for us to do a story on it, you got it. Dwayne Johnson, aka, The Rock   and Dany Garcia, they`re today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10. I was in San Antonio working on a project soon to come and ahead of the XFL co-owner celebrating the championship win for the Renegades, I asked DJ and   Dany a question specifically for all of you.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  What is the key to persevering through tough times? DANY GARCIA, BUSINESSWOMAN, FILM PRODUCER AND BODYBUILDER:  There`s faith, right? Faith, higher power faith. But there`s also faith that lives in who   you are. Maybe at that moment you may not think, you know, me feeling good about myself or my opinion of myself is the most important opinion. But in   the long run, your opinion of who you are matters. You are what`s most important. You matter to you. And whatever tough time is happening, time   will make it better. Reaching out to people you love will making better, but loving yourself will make it better. DWAYNE JOHNSON, ACTOR, FILM PRODUCER AND FORMER WRESTLER:  Beautiful answer, I think Coy, for the kids who are watching this in their classroom   right now, you got to have that faith that things are going to get better. It`s much easier for us to sit and say it than it is to do it because   that`s always the case. But I`ve been there. You`ve been there, we`ve been there. I`ve been in some tough times, man. In my high school days where I   used to think, I don`t know if this, if I could get through this, I don`t know how I`m going to do it. But keeping the faith and also I think it`s   really important for kids today if you`re going through it and you`re going through some tough times, talk to some somebody that`s important because I   know how it was for me growing up as a kid. It wasn`t -- talking about my feelings, was not cool.  So I kept it all in here and that`s not cool. We like to tell kids is if you`re going through it, talk to somebody, get it out. Somebody out there   is going to help you. And just keep in mind that when you talk to somebody, even if it feels funky or uncomfortable, you talk to somebody. That`s your   superpower. It`s talking to somebody.  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Powerful stuff from DJ and Dany Garcia. And when you realize their successes in life are probably a direct result of their positive attitudes,   it kind of makes you want to have one yourself.  Tag them in my most recent Instagram post @Danygarciaco, @therock. Let them feel the CNN 10 love.  Now, speaking of The Rock, our special shout out today goes to Eek, Alaska. Eek School, you rock. Remember, it`s a great day to be a cougar. Shine   bright today, everyone. You never know when, you never know how or for whom, but you are going to be the light that someone needs one day. I`m Coy   Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-05-18
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, friends. Happy Friday Eve. It`s Thursday, May 18. Let`s keep it going strong. We`re almost at the end of the week.   And let`s make this a random thought Thursday, shall we? What word actually becomes shorter when you add two letters to it?  Now, if you know the answer, keep it to yourself. If not, think about it. Ruminate and debate, and I`ll give you the answer at the end of the show.   I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we begin overseas where we`re seeing heavy flooding in Italy.  Officials say at least five people have been killed and over 5000 residents have been forced to be evacuated from their homes after extreme flooding   and mudslides hit the northern Italian region of Emilia-Romagna.  This region actually was suffering a prolonged drought, but it`s under red alert, meaning it`s the highest-level warning or state of emergency for   life threatening weather events. The situation is getting dire as more rain is expected. A total of 600 firefighters have been deployed from all over   the country to assist with evacuation efforts in the region after one of its rivers burst its banks. Officials, they`re advising residents there to   take the utmost caution.  Formula One has even announced the cancellation of this weekend`s Grand Prix event there because of heavy flooding in the region. Citing safety   concerns. Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni tweeted on Tuesday evening, extending her total sympathy to those affected by the flooding, adding that   the government stands, "ready to intervene with the necessary aid." CNN`s Barbie Latza Nadeau has more for us from Italy.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BARBIE LATZA NADEAU, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: Roads turn to rivers as rain many hoped would alleviate drought conditions. Now a serious threat in the   central Italian region of Emilia-Romagna. There are already victims. And rescuers are searching for the missing. Hundreds of people were rescued   from flooded homes, many brought to safety and rubber dinghies on flooded streets. More than 5000 people are under evacuation, according to the civil   protection, the region had been undergoing severe drought.  In 2022, low rainfall and extreme heat depleted the river Po a crucial waterway for transport and irrigation. A winter with very little snow did   little to help. And as bad as these floods are, they are only a drop in the bucket for what is needed to reverse the drought. Earlier this month, a   downpour swelled the Po by 5 feet. This deluge of water will raise it even more, but it is still well below average.  Extreme weather events are threatening other Italian regions from Venice, where the MOSE floodgates have been raised to protect the city from high   water, to Sicily, where heavy storms down trees and flooded homes. Barbie Latza Nadeau, CNN, Rome.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia.  Charles Darwin`s theory of evolution was inspired by a trip to what group of islands?  Hawaiian Islands, British Isles, Galapagos Islands or the Florida Keys? An Ecuadorian archipelago, the Galapagos Islands inspired the theory of evolution following Darwin`s trip there in 1835.  The Galapagos Islands are known for their rich biodiversity and stunning wildlife with endangered species. But many of the species on the islands   are now in need of protection. Our Lynda Kinkade reports on how Ecuador has started a new program called Debt-For-Nature to help fund conservation   efforts.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LYNDA KINKADE, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Darwin`s flycatcher, a creature that helped inspire Darwin`s theory on evolution 188 years ago, sits   perched on the edge of extinction. The small bird species native to Ecuador`s Galapagos Island chain is dwindling in number.  On the island of Santa Cruz, just 15 adult pears remain. Yet scientists see a glimmer of hope in the past year, 12 new chicks were hatched, a sign that   the species will live on to fight another day.  For now, this tiny comeback is helping to spur efforts to protect the rich biodiversity of the Galapagos Islands. These islands are at a perilous   crossroads. According to researchers, a million plants and animals worldwide are at risk of extinction from habitat destruction, rising carbon   emissions and overfishing.  As biodiversity declines worldwide, the Galapagos Islands are a litmus test. To protect this precious ecosystem, Ecuador announced a record   setting deal to convert $1.6 billion of its debt into a loan it says would channel at least $12 million a year to conserving the Galapagos.  JOSE ANTONIO DAVALOS, ECUADORIAN ENVIRONMENT MINISTER (through translator): Not only will it allow us to protect 2500 marine species, of which 38 are   migratory, but it will also allow us to move towards a sustainable fishery.  KINKADE: It is one of the largest debt for conservation swaps in history. Over the next two decades, Ecuador hopes to channel over $450 million   towards protecting one of the most incredible ecosystems on the planet, a move that some say is crucial not just for the environment, but for   Ecuador`s survival.  ELIZABETH SALINAS, TRADER (through translator): It seems to me that we must help maintain the flora and fauna and thus attract tourism, which is what   keeps the country alive.  KINKADE: In late 2022, nearly 190 nations signed on to take measures to combat biodiversity loss, passing a U.N. agreement that pledges to preserve   30% of the world`s land and seas by 2030. Ambitious measures that conservation groups say do not go far enough.  Meanwhile, some environmentalists hope Ecuador`s debt for conservation model gains momentum in other parts of the world as a win-win for both   economies and for conservation efforts. Lynda Kinkade, CNN.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Now, this next story is going to make you think twice the next time you see a plant. Did you know that plants actually make sounds that are   undetectable to the human ear? That`s right. And according to a new study, our seemingly silent green friends actually make noises when they`re   thirsty or when they`re under some kind of stress. Where do you hear this?  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Those everyday house plants sitting on your windowsill are more like us than we thought. New research shows they even get stressed   and are vocal about it. Listen to this. These popping sounds come from a stressed tomato plant. To record this, scientists use ultrasonic   microphones that detect frequencies human ears can`t. The audio is then sped up and edited so we can hear it. Researchers are unsure why plants   make these sounds, but we do know that plants can detect certain sounds as well.  RICHARD KARBAN, ENTOMOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, DAVIS: Plants have been reported to respond to the sounds of bees, to produce sweeter nectar,   and also chewing sounds of caterpillars feeding on their leaves.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: For example, watch this mustard plant react to a cabbage caterpillar chewing on its leaves by releasing an internal wave of   calcium.  KARBAN: Some of these electrical responses are not too dissimilar to the electrical responses that occur in nerve cells of animals.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Plants then become more resistant or less preferred by insects. Scientists say that these defenses are passed down to plants   offspring through their seeds. And it`s not just their progeny. Plants can even recognize and help other family members.  KARBAN: We don`t know how this works, but when plants encounter the roots of their relatives as opposed to the roots of strangers, they have been   found to grow less and as a result, to compete less for resources like water and soil nutrients.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: All of these abilities are tied to plants fight for survival. But contrary to what some plant lovers may think, a plant   survival doesn`t appear to be affected by talking to or playing it music.  KARBAN: My guess is that if you care enough to talk to your plant, you`re probably paying attention to how it`s doing, what kinds of conditions it`s   experiencing. And that`s probably a good thing.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Now, if you don`t have any qualms about walking past storm drains along the sidewalk, this next story getting a 10 out of 10 might make you   think twice. A mysterious creature is lurking in the pipes underground, seen by stormwater crews in Oviedo, Florida, with a robotic camera. At   first they think it`s a salamander or a frog, but then, that`s a gator, dude. And we`re talking about a five-foot-long gator. The robot could only   follow the prehistoric looking beast for about 340 feet before the bot got stuck, and it was see you later, alligator. Wonder where that thing is.  All right. So many great Your Word Wednesday submissions yesterday. And the winner is Mary from St. Isidore School in Quakertown, Pennsylvania for   qualm, a noun that`s an uneasy feeling of doubt, worry or fear, especially about one`s own conduct. Well done.  And as for that random thought Thursday, what word actually becomes shorter when you add two letters to it? The word is short it becomes shorter when   you add two letters.  Our special shout out is going to southern Utah today. Parowan High School in Parowan. We see you, rise up, everyone, and make it an awesome day. I`m   Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-05-19
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, my friends. We made it to the end of the week. It`s Friday, and Friday`s rock, and so do all of you. Remember,   what`s within influences, what happens without. So let`s get our minds right and finish this week strong.  We start on Capitol Hill, where congressional leaders are deeply concerned with the risks of artificial intelligence, or AI. Now, with some   background, we`ve all heard how the impact of AI can change our daily lives, where it can even impact how we work within many industries,   impacting jobs across the globe.  The tech company OpenAI has been at the center of all of this, especially after the wild success of ChatGPT, the company`s Chatbot tool, where it can   learn to mimic the grammar and structure of our writing and speech.  This tool has now led to other tech companies building their own programs and apps to create arts, pictures, images, as well as impersonating other   people`s voices. Major tech leaders have been questioned about the risks of AI, including Twitter CEO Elon Musk. And statements like this from a CNBC   interview are raising a few eyebrows.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ELON MUSK, CEO, TESLA, SPACEX AND TWITTER: There`s a strong probability that it will make life much better and that we`ll have an age of abundance   and there`s some chance that it goes wrong and destroys humanity. Hopefully, that chance is small, but it`s not zero. And so I think we want   to take whatever actions we can think of to minimize the probability that AI goes wrong.  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Now, earlier this week, OpenAI CEO Sam Altman testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee. He faced serious questions about how his   program and other major tech intelligence apps can pose a threat to humanity and possibly put us all out of work. Altman, however, did urge   lawmakers to regulate artificial intelligence, describing the technology`s current boom as potential printing press moment, as he described it, but   it`s a moment that he says requires safeguards.  Also in his remarks, the OpenAI CEO says the potential for AI to be used to manipulate voters and target disinformation are among his areas of greatest   concern, especially because there`s going to be a presidential election next year. And he says these models are getting better. CNN`s Nick Watt has   more for us from the hearing.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SAM ALTMAN, CEO AND CO-FOUNDER, OPEN AI: My worst fears are that we cause significant, we, the field, the technology, the industry cause significant   harm to the world.  NICK WATT, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Today`s Senate hearing is a crucial step in humanity`s effort to prevent that harm and to rein in the handful   of players controlling this tech.  ALTMAN: So I think there needs to be incredible scrutiny on us and our competitors.  WATT: His company created ChatGPT. You know, it can write a term paper or a song, captured imaginations and headlines.  BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN ANCHOR: Could artificial intelligence soon put us all out of work? WATT: AI has potentially world changing benefits equitable education, helping eradicate disease, transportation. AI can be life enhancing or   maybe an existential threat to humanity.  GARY MARCUS, PROFESSOR OF PSYCHOLOGY AND NEURAL SCINCE, NYU: These new systems are going to be destabilizing. They can and will create persuasive   lies at a scale humanity has never seen before. Democracy itself is threatened. WATT: As are jobs. ALTMAN: GPT4 will, I think entirely, automate away some jobs, and it will create new ones that we believe will be much better.  WATT: There are risks, like automated weapons we can imagine.  SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM, (R) SOUTH CAROLINA: Could AI create a situation where a drone can select the target itself?  ALTMAN: I think we shouldn`t allow that.  GRAHAM: Well, can it be done?  ALTMAN: Sure.  WATT: And there are risks we can, for now, barely even comprehend. ALTMAN: As these systems do become more capable, and I`m not sure how far away that is, but maybe not super far. I think it`s important that we also   spend time talking about how we`re going to confront those challenges.  WATT: So, what do we do?  SEN. JOHN NEELY KENNEDY, (R) LOUISIANA: Talk in plain English and tell me what, if any, rules we ought to implement.  MARCUS: Number one, a safety review like we use with the FDA prior to widespread deployment.  WATT: Suggestions today to licensed developers and/or the most powerful AI systems.  ALTMAN: I think a model that can persuade, manipulate, influence person`s behavior or person`s belief. That would be a good threshold. I think a   model that could help create novel biological agents would be a great threshold.  WATT: There was support in this room for a brand-new government agency to oversee AI. But --  SEN. RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (D) CONNECTICUT: For every success story in government regulation, you can think of five failures.  WATT: And this technology is moving very, very fast. Google, Microsoft and others pouring in billions of dollars. Government can be glacial.  SEN. RICHARD DURBIN, (D) ILLINOIS: When you look at the record of Congress and dealing with innovation, technology and rapid change, we`re not   designed for that.  SEN. PETER WELCH, (D) VERMONT: I`ve come to the conclusion that it`s impossible for Congress to keep up with the speed of technology.  WATT: There is, of course, an election in the U.S. just about 18 months away, and an avalanche of misinformation no doubt on its way. So there`s   not much time to deal with at least some of the issues at play here.  Another big question, should the U.S. just create its own agency and then hope that the rest of the world will follow? Or should people be   concentrating on creating a global initiative, a global body to oversee AI?  Now, listen, three minutes on Capitol Hill or three minutes on television is not nearly enough to deal with this massive topic. That committee of the   Senate will be meeting many more times. Many brains around the world working on this problem, and experts tell me that we, you, me, all of us,   we need to also educate ourselves about AI so we know what`s coming down the pike and how it might impact us. Nick Watt, CNN Los Angeles.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia.  In 1889, the U.S. Government opened two million acres for settlement in a region that became what state?  California, Texas, Oklahoma, or Wyoming?  Those who entered before the official start time were dubbed sooners, which is why Oklahoma is named the Sooner state.  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is Buffalo Bills player Damar Hamlin, adding another incredible chapter to his recovery as he was honored with   the George Hollis award by the pro-football writers of America on Monday.  Given each year to the NFL player, coach, or staff member that overcame adversity to succeed, Hamlin was cleared to resume football activities last   month after suffering cardiac arrest on the playing field in January.  Now Danny Kellington, the Bills Assistant Athletic Trainer who helped save Hamlin`s life, gave a powerful commencement speech at his alma mater,   Oklahoma State over the weekend, telling graduates that preparation is one of life`s keys to success.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DANNY KELLINGTON, BUFFALO BILLS ASSISTANT ATHLETIC TRAINER: Thankfully, we restored Damar`s heartbeat. We were ready. It`s a bit odd to be the person   reporters are talking about when they say, Danny Kellington is a hero. It`s very humbly. I`ve said repeatedly that I am not a hero. But I will tell you   what I was that day. I was ready. When unexpected doors open or life changes course, trust that your experiences have led you there, and you   will be ready.  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Wise words, Mr. Kellington. You don`t have to get ready if you stay ready. There`s no such thing as luck when it comes to true success, right?   Most often, true success is discipline and preparation meeting a moment. Special shout out is going to Beverly Middle School in Beverly, Massachusetts, rise up. Thanks to all of you who`ve learned, laughed and   spread love this week. Here`s a look at some of the most memorable moments we`ve shared. Remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire.   This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END 

Date: 2023-05-22
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello to you and happy Monday to all my friends all across the country. Hope you had a great weekend.  I was in Ocean City, Maryland, with my dad and brother for the annual car show there. Hot rods, muscle cars, cruisers, all sorts of awesome rides and   people. To Bryant, Nathaniel, Journey and Jada (ph) from Cape Henlopen High School in Milford, and Mariner Middle Schools, it was great to meet you. Now this is going to be our last week together before the show goes on summer hiatus, so what do you say we get our engine started and go all gas,   no brakes and finish this school year strong. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10.  And we begin today with the G7 Summit or the Group of Seven summit. It`s where the world`s most powerful democracies meet to discuss a wide range of   issues, including economic policies, security, the climate, and energy issues.  The G7 countries are the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan, Italy, Germany, France and Canada. But leaders from some non-G7 countries will   also participate this year. Australia, Brazil, Comoros, Cook Islands, India, Indonesia, South Korea and Vietnam are also invited.  This year is Japan`s turn to host, led by Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida. The summit is in the Japanese city of Hiroshima, which is where,   as many of you know, the world`s first atomic bomb attack happened at the end of World War II in the 1940s.  Hiroshima is the prime minister`s hometown as well and the host city was chosen to emphasize a determination to put nuclear disarmament at the top   of the agenda of this year`s summit. Key issues being discussed this year include growing aggression from China and North Korea and Russia`s invasion   of Ukraine. Ukraine`s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy made a surprise appearance at the summit to address his nation`s ongoing conflict with   Russia.  Now, while President Biden is at the summit, the debt ceiling limit is a growing concern back in the United States. The deadline to reach an   agreement is just a matter of days away, and President Biden addressed a stark warning about the debt limit as both the White House and   congressional Republicans remain at a standstill. Our Phil Mattingly is in Japan with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  The second full day of President Biden`s high-stakes appearance on the world   stage clouded by one reality. REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-CA), HOUSE SPEAKER:  We`ve got to get movement by the White House. And we don`t have any movement yet.  MATTINGLY:  Even as he wakes up 7,000 miles away from Washington, Biden is no closer to resolving the looming crisis he left behind.  REP. GARRETT GRAVES (R-LA):  Until people are willing to have reasonable conversations about how you can actually move forward and do the right   thing then we`re not going to sit here and talk to ourselves. And that`s what`s going on. MATTINGLY:  House Republicans hitting pause on negotiations with the White House over a fiscal deal that would address the debt limit, less than two   weeks before the U.S. is set to default for the first time in its history with potentially catastrophic consequences for the global economy. Biden   leaving a working dinner of G7 leaders here in Hiroshima early on Thursday night to be briefed on the talks.  His second briefing of the day on negotiations that are in desperate need of a breakthrough. A White House official telling CNN, quote, there are   real differences between the parties but that the president`s team is working hard towards a reasonable bipartisan solution.  Biden`s domestic political challenge coming at the same moment U.S. officials are pressing to maintain and accelerate the steadfast support for   Ukraine. G7 leader is putting the conflict front and center in the first day of their summit in Japan, launching new sanctions and export curbs   designed to squeeze Russia`s ability to wage war, at the same time, Biden marking his own dramatic shift, delivering the message to his counterparts   that the U.S. will support a joint effort with allies to train Ukrainian pilots on fourth generation fighter jets, including F-16s. Those fighter   jets have been a top Ukrainian priority, as Russia`s invasion of the country grinds towards its 15th month, at an inflection point with allies   rapidly moving to provide new defense capabilities as Ukrainian forces prepare for a long-awaited counter-offensive. Those efforts set to receive a dramatic boost by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy`s last-minute decision to travel to the G7 leader   summit this weekend. It`s Zelenskyy`s latest visit to rally`s support after securing commitments for additional aid in European capitals last week,   before a stop in Saudi Arabia where he addressed the Arab League Summit. And President Zelenskyy is expected to participate on Sunday in meetings with G7 leaders. President Biden is expected to be meeting on issues like   climate, issues like infrastructure but a central focus or an overarching focus on the issue of China. Phil Mattingly, CNN, Hiroshima. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next up, a TikTok takedown. Montana has become the first U.S. state to sign a bill banning the download of the popular app due to privacy and   security concerns.  TikTok says that more than million Americans are active users on their platform known for sharing short videos of anything from dance challenges,   food recipes, inspiration, motivation, how-to tutorials, comedians and more. And for their part, TikTok maintains that all user information on   their platform is safe. Our Brian Todd has more from Montana. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  For the first time, a U.S. state has completely banned TikTok, sort of. Montana Governor Greg   Gianforte signing a bill that bans downloading the app in Montana. Individuals who already have TikTok won`t be prosecuted for using it, but   App Stores like Apple or Google Play would be fine if they let anyone in Montana download it. The Montana ban will probably face strong challenges in court, but it`s the latest salvo against the popular app that nearly half of Americans use for   sharing short videos, of everything from goofy stunts, to food recipes and dance challenges. Critics call it a security threat because a Chinese   company owns TikTok. REP. CATHY MCMORRIS RODGERS (R-WA):  To the American people watching today, hear this, TikTok is a weapon by the Chinese communist party to spy on you,   manipulate what you see and exploit for future generations. TODD:  The most serious warnings, that personal data could be stolen, privacy compromised. JAMES LEWIS, CENTER FOR STRATEGIC AND INTERNATIONAL STUDIES:  That`s the main concern is this Chinese software controlled by the Chinese state and   you are downloading it onto -- voluntarily downloading it onto your phone.  TODD:  Critics say TikTok users could be spied on and blackmailed. One analyst says China could use the app to take a page out of Vladimir Putin`s   playbook and create misinformation campaigns to influence American politics. LEWIS:  Maybe downplay stories about what`s going on in China, that they don`t want people to see maybe exaggerate stories about how things aren`t   going so well in the U.S. TikTok`s CEO recently told skeptical lawmakers the company doesn`t share user data, doesn`t spy for Beijing, and doesn`t take orders on content.  SHOU CHEW, CEO, TIKTOK:  It is our commitment to this community and all our users that we will keep this free from any manipulation of any government.   We will protect the U.S. user data and fire it all from all unwanted foreign access. RODGERS:  Your platform should be banned. TODD:  More than half of U.S. states and the federal government have already restricted the TikTok app from being installed on government   devices. Defenders of the app say there`s no evidence TikTok has spied on users at the Chinese government`s behest or turned over data. And --   REP. JAMAAL BOWMAN (D-NY):  We`re talking about free speech for everyday Americans. TODD:  And the Chinese government calls talk of a ban a xenophobic witch hunt. But analysts say if the Chinese regime does decide to pressure TikTok   for information, by Chinese law, the company can`t say no. PROF. AYNNE KOKAS, AUTHOR, "TRAFFICKING DATA: HOW CHINA IS WINNING":  Are there pressures from the Chinese government that eventually make their way   down to TikTok? Absolutely. TODD:  In a statement to CNN, TikTok vowed to defend the rights of its users in Montana, saying the governor has signed a bill that infringes on   the First Amendment rights of people in the state. TikTok calls the ban unlawful and says it wants to reassure Montanans that they can continue to   use the platform to express themselves. Brian Todd, CNN, Washington. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which of these is not one of the new Seven Wonders of the World? The Great Wall of China, the Taj Mahal, the Colosseum, or the pyramids of Egypt? Considered a wonder of the ancient world, the pyramids of Egypt are not on the list of new world wonders. (MUSIC) WIRE:  A Guinness World Record for visiting all Seven New Wonders of the World in less than seven days -- well, that`s today`s story getting a 10   out of 10.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Come on, a new Guinness World Record. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  With only a backpack, British traveler Jamie McDonald whose alter ego is "Adventureman" started his trek by walking parts of the Great Wall   of China. He traveled to the Taj Mahal in India, the Petra in Jordan, Colosseum in Rome, then headed to South America to the Christ the Redeemer   statue in Brazil, Machu Picchu in Peru, and finish it up at Chichen Itza in Mexico. Nine countries, four continents in less than a week, and he   traveled the 22,000 some miles using only public transportation, 13 flights, 16 taxis, nine buses, four trains, and a toboggan.  Perhaps the most inspiring part -- when he was 9 years old, Jamie was diagnosed with a rare spine disorder and doctors thought he`d have trouble   even walking for the rest of his life. W, Jamie. I want to give us a special shout out today to Mrs. Williams class at North Forsyth Middle School here in Georgia. We see you. Thanks for the love and thanks for watching, everyone. I`ll see you tomorrow. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-05-23
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, everyone. It`s Tuesday, and it`s our last teacher time Tuesday shout-out of the year. Much respect to all of you who   are uplifting, informing and inspiring the next generation.  Students, go dap up your teachers. Give a handshake or a high five. Let them know you appreciate them. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. So grateful to be here with you. Let`s start today with a quick zip through some of the headlines making the news.  First up, a devastating cyclone has rocked the Southeast Asian country of Myanmar. Cyclone Mocha, a category storm with winds of up to 195 miles per   hour battered the nation, leaving entire villages wiped out, shelters destroyed and piles of debris stretching for miles, is considered one of   the strongest storms to ever hit Myanmar and authorities say more than 400 people have died.  According to U.N.`s humanitarian office, clean water supplies and fuel are running low, and there is critical need for shelters, food medicine, and   health care services. Thoughts and prayers for the people there. Next, we go to Europe where the European Union regulators have fined social media giant Meta a record-breaking $1.3 billion for transferring the   personal data of Facebook`s E.U users to servers in the U.S. Meta, which also owns Instagram and WhatsApp said it would appeal the ruling including   the fine, and it also says there would be no immediate disruption of the Facebook app in Europe. Meta says the root of this issue comes from a quote   conflict of law between U.S. rules on access to data and the privacy rights of Europeans. Next up, we head to Florida where we had a successful rocket launch check out this SpaceX rocket taking off on Sunday as the crew embarks on a week-  long stay aboard the International Space Station. The Dragon freedom spacecraft crew is led by former NASA astronaut Peggy Whitson who`s now the   first woman to command a private space flight. She`s joined by three paying customers.  Stem cell researcher Rayyanah Barnawi is making history as the first woman from Saudi Arabia to ever travel to space. This marks the second all-  private mission to the International Space Station. Houston-based company Axiom Space is in charge of the journey called Ax-2. All right. Let`s stay out of this world and head to the Red Planet or Mars. Back in the summer of 2020, NASA launched a space rover called Mars 2020   Perseverance. This small mobile robot eventually landed on Mars seven months later. The main goal of this mission was for the rover to look for   signs of past microbial life, snag some rock and soil samples and best of all prepare for human exploration in the future. Remember, no human has ever been to Mars. Our Ashley Strickland sat down with a NASA scientist who gives us exciting updates on the mission, and the   possible history of water on one of Mars`s craters. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ASHLEY STRICKLAND, CNN SPACE & SCIENCE WRITER: Where is Perseverance rover currently and what is it up to these days? KATIE STACK MORGAN, MARS 2020 DEPUTY PROJECT SCIENTIST, NASA JPL: So, Perseverance is still in Jezero Crater. It is on this fan that is in Jezero   Crater, and we`ve now climbed up on top of this fan and are exploring the sedimentary rocks on the top surface of the fan. STRICKLAND: What can we hope to learn from this area. MORGAN: We have recorded different depositional environments that could be lake environments, delta environments, river environments, that really   capture the history of water in Jezero Crater.  STRICKLAND: So what are some of the different types of rock that perseverance has encountered since it landed two years ago. MORGAN: We had a lot of debates early on before we landed, sedimentary or igneous formed by volcanoes or formed deposited by water or wind. And as it   turned out, these were igneous rocks, which was of surprise to us, but a really pleasant surprise because igneous rocks contain different kinds of   information that we`re interested in for return sample science. And so we have things like volcanic salt, rocks that likely formed deep in the   interior of Mars from magma. Then we transitioned from that crater floor into the sedimentary deposits and now we`re here in sandstones, conglomerates, mud stones, the kinds of   rocks that are deposited by flowing water. STRICKLAND: What could we hope to learn from this diverse array of samples when they come back to Earth? MORGAN: The fact that we have a diverse set of rocks means we have different types of potential habitable environments recorded within these   rocks. Surface, watery environments we know from here on Earth is a good place to record signs of ancient life. But there`s also the potential that   life could find habitable niches in igneous rocks when water flows through those rocks underground. STRICKLAND: You`ve been wanting to get outside of the crater, so what does that look like? MORGAN: There are a lot of mysteries outside the crater. This is some of the oldest crust in the solar system, and we`re going to have a chance to   explore that with the rover. But this is a part of solar system history that`s not well-preserved here on Earth. So we`re going to get to see rocks   of this age for the first time on Mars. It`s unclear what these rocks are to look like. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten-second trivia: Name the island country off the coast of Africa whose capital is Port Louis? Mauritius, Seychelles, Madagascar or Gambia? Mauritius is your answer here. The island nation gained independence from the U.K. in 1968. Now, Mauritius is an island nation that`s closely linked to its vast ebony forest. Historically, these durable black hardwood trees were used for   building furniture, cabinets, even piano keys. But now, conservationists are doing reservation initiatives, looking to save the forest along with   its exotic bird species. Our Zane Asher has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ZAIN ASHER, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Some 12,000 miles of the southeastern coast of Africa in the middle of the Indian Ocean lies the   island where the iconic dodo bird once roamed. Centuries after its extinction, the flightless bird is still inextricably linked with the   African nation of Mauritius. You can find it on banknotes, coins and the country`s coat of arms. Today, Dr. Nicolas Zuel and his team of conservationists are working hard to   ensure other endemic species don`t go the way of the dodo. DR. NICOLAS ZUEL, CONSERVATION MANAGER, EBONY FOREST: Before human beings came to Mauritius, the forest would look like what you see around us. ASHER: Less 2 percent of the native forest remains on the island, due in part to poaching, pollution and logging. Historically, one of the most sought after resources, the ebony tree, is coveted for its durable black hardwood which is used to build furniture,   cabinets, piano keys. And more now the global trade of ebony wood is controlled and most species have been protected to prevent extinction. ZUEL: The history of Mauritius is closely linked to ebony trees because when the Dutch colonized the island, one of the reason, the main reason   they wanted to colonize the island is to be able to exploit the ebony trees. ASHER: The journey to restore this patch of forest located on the southwest part of the island began in 2006. The work started with weeding, planting   and growing native plant species. It also involved the reintroduction of locally extinct species like the pink pigeon and the echo parakeet, both   considered vulnerable and globally threatened. ZUEL: It`s important to have birds because forest restoration and the animal battle (ph) live in it goes hand in hand. So without (INAUDIBLE) the   forest will not survive. So, yes we are linked to extinction of species with the dodo, but we`re also an example of what can be done to save our bird species. ASHER: After 11 years of restoration initiatives, the ebony forest park officially opened to the public in 2017.  Visitors can bird watch, hike or volunteer and contribute to the conservation efforts on this tropical island paradise.  ZUEL: So it`s really important for us to have ebony forest to raise awareness about species, about conservation. So that`s something which is   really important for us to just work together with people, share the knowledge and also learn from others. ASHER: To date, the conservationists say they`ve planted more than 140,000 endemic plants while also weeding and planting 16 additional hectares of   forest.  With the dodo`s legacy in mind, the ultimate goal is to safeguard the island`s natural glory for generations to come. ZUEL: And ultimately, osmosis as lots of endemic species, it`s a narrative but for the old world what we are preserving here. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: We are shaking things up with some researchers from the University of California, San Diego, for today`s story getting a 10 out of 10.  A group of engineers built and tested the tallest full-scale building ever on an earthquake simulator or shake table. Ten stories high, shaken like a   salt shaker in simulations of two of the strongest quakes in recent history a 6.7 and a 7.7 magnitude, and the historic tests were a success. The   building was damage free. The data is going to be used to help design safer buildings and bridges. I try to come up with some good puns for that story but they were all shaky at best. Sorry, my fault. Hope it doesn`t cause a rift between us. Tiffin, Iowa, you get our special shout out today. Clear Creek Amana Middle School, you rock. And Mr. Wilmer, we see you. Now, tomorrow you make the show. It`s going to be a #yourwordwednesday. So follow me @coywire on Instagram, Snapchat and TikTok, put your unique   vocabulary word in the comments section on my most recent post, and we`re going to choose one fun one to work into tomorrow`s show. Bring it. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END   

Date: 2023-05-24
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. Wonderful Wednesday to you. We`re halfway through to a week, and we`re going to keep on grinding and   shining because that`s just what we do. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news. Remember to keep your ear out today for your vocab word in today`s show. We begin today through the confusion in the nation`s capital. Check out this   photo. Looks pretty real, right? Well, it`s not. This fake image appears to show a major explosion near the Pentagon, but experts say the image has all   the makings of being generated by AI or artificial intelligence. It was even shared by numerous verified Twitter accounts with blue check marks, including one falsely claiming it was associated with Bloomberg   News. The fake image from the fake account posted, "Large Explosion near The Pentagon Complex in Washington, D.C. -- Initial Report.  Well, local officials were cognizant of these false reports, and they confirmed that no such incident occurred. And experts said the building in   the image doesn`t even closely resemble the Pentagon. The Fire Department in Arlington, Virginia responded in a tweet stating that the department and   the Pentagon Forest Protection Agency were, "aware of a social media report circulating online about an explosion near the Pentagon." There is no   explosion or incident taking place at or near the Pentagon reservation, and there is no immediate danger or hazards to the public." Now, this mayhem and confusion even impacted the stock market, with Wall Street seeing a brief dip during the trading day. This fake image even   tricked some international news outlets. False reports making their way to air on major Indian television network Republic TV.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Explosion reported near Pentagon. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Which cited reports from the Russian news outlet RT. The news outlet later retracted that report when it became clear that the incident never   took place. Our Donie O`Sullivan has more on this viral hoax.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DONIE O`SULLIVAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  There`s two parts of this, right? There`s, first is Elon Musk`s Twitter. And a lot of your viewers might   remember the whole saga about the blue check marks on Twitter, the verified checkmarks. Musk has basically taken all of those away and is selling them   now to people who want to get a blue check mark.  So whereas before, if you had a blue tick on Twitter, it meant that Twitter had verified you are the person or the organization you`re claiming to be.   That`s not really the case. So what happened this morning was somebody posted using an account that they claimed was linked to the Bloomberg News   organization, posting that AI generated image and claiming there had been some kind of explosion at the Pentagon. That then got shared across   multiple other verified accounts that we saw it on other platforms, too. It looked quite coordinated, but we don`t know right now who pushed this.  Multiple experts we`ve spoken to and others who have observed this online say that that is an image generated by artificial intelligence. And you can   see there particularly people who are familiar with Washington that the building in the picture is not the Pentagon. But, you know, it just goes to   show, even with a crude fake like this and some verified accounts on Twitter, that, you know, you could still cause a lot of trouble. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia.   In what country would find the highest point in the Western Hemisphere?  Ecuador, Argentina, United States or Canada?  Argentina is your answer here. Aconcagua is a mountain part of the Andes mountains, rising to around 22,000 feet. All right. Argentina has a massive, nearly 2-million-acre park called Ibera National Park, with thousands of plant and animal species and now they`re   reintroducing the largest cats on the continent, jaguars. Awesome cats like the Collegiate Cougars in Richmond, Virginia.  Now, bringing these jaguars back to the park`s ecosystem is part of the restoration or rewilding efforts happening there. Our Bill Weir has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BILL WEIR, CNN CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT:  In the upper right corner of Argentina, you will find a lush land brimming with life, a park called   Ibera, the home to 4000 species of plants and animals. Near the very top of that intricate food chain and vital to keeping it balanced, is the majestic   jaguar. But until 2021, the biggest cat in South America had not been seen in the wild here for 70 years.  KRISTINE TOMPKINS, PRESIDENT AND CO-FOUNDER TOMPKINS CONSERVATION:  When we decided to try to reintroduce jaguars back into the Ibera ecosystem, we had   to first understand what happened to them in the first place? So we went back in, it`s not hard to find. And you see why there are no jaguars left   in this 2-million-acre territory.  Kris and Doug Tompkins made a fortune in adventure gear and fashion, but now hold the legacy of launching what Chris calls a world first breeding   program aimed at reintroducing keystone species back into the region.  TOMPKINS:  Almost eleven years later, now we have between 14 and 18 jaguars living in the wild and we have seven individuals who are sort of on deck to   be released.  WEIR:  It`s the fruit of a labor Kris and Doug began Decades ago when they traded in high powered lives and fashion for a cabin off the grid, deep in   Patagonia. TOMPKINS:  The roots of Tompkins conservation sprouted when Doug, after a really successful business career, went back to Chile and Argentina in the   early 90s, looking for a way to give back to the two countries he loved so much. And to help nature begin to heal itself.  WEIR:  Doug`s vision involved a rewilding approach to conservation, and he began by buying up millions of acres, turning ranches back into grassland   and forest, and then giving it all away with the creation of new, National Parks. TOMPKINS:  To create the system where species that have gone missing have the space and the safety to come back and not be extincted again.  WEIR:  Along with its offshoots Rewilding Argentina and Rewilding Chile, Tompkins conservation has conserved around 15 million acres over the last   three decades. And after tragically losing her husband Doug to a kayaking accident in 2015, Kris Tompkins carries on the dream. This Photograph is a picture of Doug and me flying in the little plane, which we did nearly every day, and really understanding the territories   that we were becoming interested in and would eventually develop as national parks. WEIR:  To date, their donated land has inspired the creation or expansion of 15 national parks. And in addition to the jaguar, they`ve successfully   reintroduced 13 other species, like the giant anteater, collared peccary and pampas deer. So here`s an example of community members. A species that   had gone extinct and is back now, and a team member that tells the whole story. Rescuing an orphaned anteater cub.  TOMPKINS:  Come on, boy, let`s go.  I feel extraordinary pride for what we`ve done so far, but I`m definitely not satisfied. I`m happy about the past, but I am completely focused on the   future. What will we be talking about in 10 years? So we can elevate ourselves because of what`s been done in the past. What can we do now? What   are we doing now?  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  A runaway cow sprinting alongside traffic is today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 drivers had to move out of the way as a bodacious bovine   barreled on by leaving people completely bumfuzzled along a Michigan highway. It was a high-speed chase with high stakes. You`ve seen Jeep   Wranglers on the road before, but how about this type of wrangler? A cowboy, complete with a lasso, reigning in the rambling runner. Did you   know cows can run up to about 25 miles per hour? That cow was milking its freedom for all it was worth. Utterly amazing. Hey, what do you call a cow   with no legs? Ground beef.  So many great Your Word Wednesday submissions yesterday. Winners are Atirza (ph) and Lily and Stacy from Wilcox Academy for bumfuzzled, an adjective   meaning confused or perplexed.  And from Arthur Hills High in Saginaw, Michigan, cognizant, an adjective meaning having knowledge of or being aware of. Well done. We hope that you   are all cognizant of the fact that we`re thankful for you. Our special shout out goes Taylor Reed (ph) Middle School in Alpharetta, Georgia. Rise up, go out and make someone smile today. All right. I`m Coy   Wire and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-05-25
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. It`s time to rise up and fuel our minds. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. It`s Thursday. Happy Friday   Eve. Can you believe this is the penultimate show of the year? The second to last one before CNN 10 summer break. I`m going to miss y`all. But I`m   going to keep posting food for thought on my @coywire social account. Stuff like hashtag, random thought Thursday. Now, if you know the answer to this   one, keep it to yourself. We`ll reveal the answer at the end of the show.  Here we go. There are 30 cows in a field, 28 chickens. How many didn`t? Think about it? All right, let`s go.  Here we go. Starting today in the pacific ocean in the U.S. territory of Guam, where officials say they`re experiencing the worst storm in decades,   Typhoon Mawar has been slamming the island with heavy rain and strong winds, reaching speeds equivalent to those that a category four hurricane   would bring. Now, did you know that typhoons and hurricanes are actually the same weather phenomenon? The difference is purely geographical. Hurricanes are   in the north Atlantic and northeast pacific oceans. Typhoons like Mawar, well, they`re in the northwest pacific. These scenes from Guam are scary.   The national weather service has warned that the storm could bring 15 to 20 inches of torrential rain or more. This can result in landslides and flash   flooding throughout the island. According to the Joint Typhoon Warning Center, maximum sustained winds were up to 140 mph, with gusts up to 165. It`s like being subjected to tornado   like wind speeds, but for long periods of time. Most of the island has lost power. But thankfully, at the time of this recording, no deaths have been   reported to CNN.  President Joe Biden approved an emergency declaration for the island on Tuesday. And FEMA, the federal emergency management agency, announced it   has more than 50 emergency relief personnel and dozens of other federal partners ready to provide emergency assistance on the ground.  Guam is home to about 150,000 people, including several U.S. military installations. Now, while Guam sits in the West Pacific ocean, an area   that`s prone to the world`s strongest tropical cyclones, it`s actually extremely rare for the island to be struck directly by a storm of this   strength. Only eight such storms like this have passed over this 30 miles wide island in the last 75 years.  Ten second trivia.  Think fast. What part of the brain is most closely linked to thinking and reasoning? Brain Stem, Cerebrum, Cerebellum or Hypothalamus? If you`re thinking cerebrum. Oh, synapse, I think neuron to something. Cerebrum for the win.  Neuroscientists at the University of Texas say they figured out a way to read minds by translating scans of brain activity into actual words using   the very same artificial intelligence technology that powers ChatGPT. Now, does this mean that we could possibly communicate with someone who`s unable or even unwilling? Pop quiz, hotshot. How do brains say, hi,   brainwaves. Our Donie O`Sullivan has more.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DONIE O`SULLIVAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: You`re reading people`s minds? ALEXANDER HUTH, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR, UT AUSTIN:  So we don`t like to use the term mind reading.  O`SULLIVAN:  These neuroscientists at the University of Texas in Austin say they`ve made a major breakthrough. They`ve figured out how to translate   brain activity into words using artificial intelligence.  HUTH:  These are different images.  O`SULLIVAN:  Earlier this month, they published a paper explaining how they had research. Volunteers listened to audio clips while having their brains   scanned by an fMRI machine. Over time, AI algorithms, the very same tech that`s behind ChatGPT, were able to figure out what the volunteers were   listening to just by watching their brains. (On camera): It is just crazy. You can watch how blood flows through the brain. And using AI and GPT and everything else translated into words? HUTH:  Yeah, it`s wild that this works when you put it that way.  HUTH:  Thumbs up, Donie. O`SULLIVAN:  To test it all out, Professor Alexander Huth and I had our brain scanned while listening to parts of The Wizard of Oz audiobook.  JERRY TANG, PHD STUDENT, UT AUSTIN:  Hi, Donie, we have a picture of your brain.  O`SULLIVAN:  I have a brain?  TANG:  Yes. It looks good.  O`SULLIVAN:  I was scanned first, followed by Professor Huth, capturing images of the changes in our brain`s blood flow as we listened to the words   from the audiobook and showing how our brains interpreted those words.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: When she had finished her meal and was about to go back to the road of yellow brick, she was startled to hear a deep groan nearby. TANG:  You can see that they`re getting recordings every two seconds while he`s listening to a story. We will feed this data through our decoder and   try to predict the story that he`s currently listening to.  O`SULLIVAN:  The next morning, the results were in.  (On camera):  OK, so it`s been 24 hours since we got our brain scanned. You can confirm I have a brain? HUTH:  Absolutely. O`SULLIVAN:  Brilliant.  HUTH:  So we were able to decode some stuff from my brain, not so much from yours. So this is one from my brain. This is from The Wizard of Oz. So on   the left side is the actual words that I heard. When she had finished her meal and was about to go back to the road of yellow brick, she was startled   to hear a deep groan nearby.  And the decoded version of this is on the right. I was about to head back to school and I hear this strange voice calling out to me. So it gets some   things right. So this like, was about to go back, was about to head back. It completely misses some things like the road of yellow brick versus   school, but then it gets this nice kind of example. So she hears something and then instead of a deep groan nearby, it said a strange voice calling   out to me. That means something related, even if it`s not exactly the right words.  O`SULLIVAN:  Still pretty incredible to think that was about to head back as something that. Just by scanning your brain.  HUTH:  Yeah, I think that`s one of the things that`s really surprising to us about this. It can get things like that, can get these entire phrases of   exact words now.  O`SULLIVAN:  So we expected mine not to be great? HUTH:  Because we haven`t trained the model on you.  O`SULLIVAN:  The reason it wasn`t able to decode my brain was because the technology currently needs people to sit in the fMRI machine for more than   16 hours, so the AI models can train on specific people`s brains. (On camera): Are we going to live in a world where, you know, I can walk by somebody on the street and they`ll be able to hold something up to my head   and they`ll know what I`m thinking?  HUTH:  Currently, we`re very far from that. That might also never be possible. We can`t completely rule it out, but as far as we know, that   certainly won`t be possible in the next few decades. The real potential application of this is actually helping people who are unable to speak   without them needing to get neurosurgery. TANG:  Now, we have this, like, snapshot of the brain. And Jerry Tang explains how they used OpenAI`s GPT large language model to help decode the   brain. The GPT model is made up of millions of pages of text from the Internet that the AI trains on and learns how sentences are constructed and   how people talk and think. GPT basically made our predictions a lot better.  O`SULLIVAN:  But it doesn`t just work listening to audio. Professor Huth showed us what happened when he watched a movie with no sound while his   brain was scanned. Watch as the technology is able to decode what his eyes are seeing. HUTH:  She then took my hand and held it to her lips. She kissed it. I smiled.  O`SULLIVAN:  Oh, my God.  HUTH:  And she put me in for a hug. I got her back for about hours. I had to stop the bleeding and gave her my shirt to put over it. It`s pretty   good.  I don`t know. It`s a pretty good description of what was happening here.  O`SULLIVAN:  Wow. Should we be scared by the work people like you are doing?  TANG:  We think it`s really important to continually evaluate the implications of brain decoding and also to start thinking about enacting   policies that protect mental privacy and regulate what brain data can be used for. O`SULLIVAN:  Mental privacy a rather dystopian term, but ones that we`re going to be getting more used to as we enter this age of artificial   intelligence. Back to you.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  To all of our band members and musicians out there, imagine you`re practicing, you`re playing with your crew, and all of a sudden a music   superstar crashes your jam session and starts jamming with you. Well, Ed Sheeran, you get today`s 10 out of 10 for making a Florida High School`s   band practice unforgettable and then giving even more of a surprise. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ED SHEERAN:  I thought I`d come and play some songs to you. I`ve also brought some guitars to give to you guys from the music department.  (CHEERING & APPLAUSE) SHEERAN:  I`m playing sold out stadium tomorrow, but I`ve got tickets for all of you guys to come.  (CHEERING & APPLAUSE) (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Sheeran sang his hits song called Perfect. And it was perfect. Some students tearing up. It was so beautiful. All have took photos and even   signed some instruments. He performed a duet with one of the students too. And how about the sweet note he left? Love you guys. That`s sweet. And love   to you too. And mahalo or thanks to everyone, like Mrs. Santiago`s class in Hawaii, who`ve subscribed to our CNN 10 YouTube channel. Our school shoutout is going to Lake Stevens High School in Lake Stevens, Washington. And Mr. Heyman, happy birthday to you. Now, for that random   thought Thursday. There are 30 cows in the field, 28 chickens. How many didn`t? Well, if you know the answer, shout it out. Go ahead. Answer is 10,   30 cows, 28 chickens, that means 10 didn`t. It`s mathematical and grammatical, y`all send your random facts or questions @coywire on Insta,   Snapchat and TikTok and use the #randomthoughtthursday.  Have an awesome day, everyone, and rise up. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-05-26
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. It`s Friday, Friyay, our final show of the season. But we will be creating some content here. And I   have some fun stuff planned on @coywire, on Insta, Snapchat and TikTok as well. Without further ado, let`s do what we do. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, and we start with a thought provoker. What do you see when you read this below?   Don`t say it aloud. Just raise your hand if you see this. Opportunity is nowhere. OK, good.  Now raise your hand if you saw this instead. Opportunity is now here. Even better, this is a good reminder for us that life isn`t about what we see,   but how we see it. We should always try to remember to see the good and the positive in anything we encounter, so we can attack our days with hope and   optimism and bring some positive vibes to our day.  Now, to the news. Let`s head to about 45 miles southeast of Mexico City, Mexico for the latest developments on the country`s most dangerous active   volcano. It`s called Popocatepetl, and numerous explosions have been recorded in recent days. Some 25 million people live within a 60 miles   radius of this volcano. Schools and dozens of municipalities have been closed. The volcano`s ash even wreaking havoc in the air, Benito Juarez   International Airport, delaying flights, even temporarily closing last weekend. Authorities say millions of people have been told to prepare for a possible evacuation. The U.S. embassy in Mexico has issued a warning saying the   volcano has exhibited increased activity since May 15, registering hundreds of tremors and smoke and ash exhalations.  The volcano had been dormant for decades, but erupted in 1994, and since then, its rumblings have become a part of the daily lives of the residents.   Our Patrick Oppmann has more.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PATRICK OPPMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Mexico`s most dangerous active volcano once again is putting residents on alert as over the last several days   there have been eruptions witnessed at the Popocatepetl volcano and that is causing officials to raise the level of alert to a yellow alert which   indicates that residents, and there are millions of residents who live in the vicinity of this volcano may need to consider evacuating should this   volcano erupt. Already there has been a duration of the air quality as ash has gone into the area. It has caused residents to have to swoop up the ash on the   streets, so officials are warning people to make sure that the ash does not get into their water supply. Some schools have been closed as well, have   some parks. There have been flights that have been delayed as a result of the ash, because, of course, ash, once it is emitted into the atmosphere,   can be very damaging, very dangerous cure to air travel. At this point, officials say that because this is an active volcano that`s been active now for some years, that they are simply in a position of   observing the volcano, that they feel they would have enough time before any major eruption to warn residents to begin evacuating. That appeared to   be less ash that had been admitted by the volcano on Tuesday. But all the same, as people in these Mexican states keep a close eye on this volcano   and what could happen next. No one is breathing a sigh of relief just yet. Patrick Oppmann, CNN, Havana.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  This Monday marks Memorial Day in the U.S. The federal holiday where Americans honor and pay tribute to those who`ve lost their lives while   serving in the military. The day which also signals the unofficial start to summer, originated in the years following the Civil War, which ended in   1865, the country establishing a Decoration Day where the nation could decorate the graves of those who died in war with flowers. Well, over 100 years later, in 1971, Congress made it an official holiday. CNN had the chance to speak with a few veterans in active-duty military   about the first time they knew they wanted to serve their country. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) BRANDON RUMBAUGH, CORPORAL RET. U.S. MARINE CORPS: When I was laying there, I really, you know, didn`t think that I was going to make it. The Marines   that were around me. I`m sure that they didn`t think I was going to make it either. So, you know, it really shows me that I`m here for a reason. What really made things clear for me was looking back at my life up to, you know, this point. I always did everything for myself and I never really   took a step back and said, you know what, I just need to start doing things for other people. And I knew that I could do that in the Marines.  JAMES BROWN, FORMER SERGEANT, U.S. AIR FORCE: My dad was furious. My dad didn`t talk to me for like a solid month. He really hated it when I said, I   was on leave to go to the military. I`m from Chicago originally. I`m from the south side. We thought that, you know, the scholarship and education, I   stuff that I had would get me out of the hood, you know, which it did. But I wanted to get farther out the net. I had higher aspirations of that I   want to get out of the country. And the Air Force was supposed to be the most intelligent branch of the service. I went all over. I mean, I went to   Scotland, I went to Wales, I went to -- every time I had a chance to get off, I went somewhere. I traveled somewhere. ELEANOR RIZZUTO, LIEUTENANT RET. U.S. ARMY: At 21, I was just finishing my nurse`s training when World War II broke out. In fact, we were on the chow   line when, over the loudspeaker, it was announced that the war had started. Being in the service made me grow up. I was a young girl, just lived home,   and all of a sudden, you`re thrown out with all kinds of people and places that you read about but never saw. It was quite an experience. It`s   something I`m very happy I did, but I would never want to do it again. FLORENT GROBERG, CAPT. RET. U.S. ARMY, MDEAL OF HONOR RECIPIENT: My uncle was killed by a terrorist organization, and I knew at that point that I   wanted to fight against those type of individuals. And so I graduated from Ranger school in October 23 of 2009, and just about six weeks later, I was   in Afghanistan. ARNIE ALBORNOZ, FORMER MAJOR, U.S. ARMY: Growing up in South Shore, Long Islands, you hear about West Point, which is where I was fortunate enough   to go to college. I was a junior when 911 happened. I distinctly remember being in class. No one was teaching. We were just sitting there watching.   Everyone was in shock. Most of the professors there are active-duty military. Each one had made a comment to the effect of, you know, cadets.   We don`t know what`s going to happen, we don`t know what this means, but your nation`s going to call on you to go serve. I never thought I`d stay in for 10 years, but I enjoyed it very much so. And it was the best job I`ve ever had in my life and likely will ever have.   So I look back on it with just the fondest memories. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten second trivia.  What are Saturn`s rings believed to be made of? Rock and ice, gas and iron, palladium and ash, or copper?  According to NASA, the rings around Saturn are composed of rock and ice.  Could Saturn`s iconic rings be disappearing? NASA`s Cassini mission orbited Saturn between 2004 and 2017, and a new study is revealing fresh insights   into when they might vanish. The data suggests that Saturn`s rings are young by celestial body standards, that is possibly a few hundred million   years old. And researchers estimate the rings will only be around for another few hundred million more. Some astronomers have argued that   Saturn`s bright, icy rings might be younger than expected because they haven`t been eroded or darkened by interactions with meteoroids across   billions of years. The city of Kyle asking everyone named Kyle to rise up for a record largest same name gathering. Well, that`s today`s story getting a 10 out of 10.   Piles of Kyles from miles and miles. Even Canada, gathering in the tiny Texas city, 1490 of them. Well, Kyle be darned, they missed the Guinness   world record set by 2325 Ivans in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2017. Still, huge salute to all of you and hope it wasn`t too confusing anytime someone   shouted, hey, Kyle. Speaking of shoutouts, I am so grateful to all of you, teachers, administrators, parents, and students like our friends at Mr. Cummings   class at Marsh Creek in Downingtown, PA, thank you for making me part of your day. And thanks to my team, Jeremy, Jairbear (ph), Jackie, Jocelyn and   Nader, Sophie, McKenna, and Maya. You all work so hard to make this show the best 10 minutes in news for all of you. We`re going to miss you until   we`re back with our Daily Shows in August. So to all of you, and especially all of our seniors out there, go and be great. Remember, greatness isn`t just innate, it`s something you cultivate.   Outwork everyone, every single day. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. You are more powerful than you know. It`s been a blessing to spend this season   with. END 

Date: 2023-08-14
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello lovely people, and welcome to a brand-new season. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we are back. Hope you all had an   awesome summer. Thanks to all of you`ve kept in touch on social media. I am pumped up, ready to rock this new season with all of you.  We are right here for you to break down the most important news as it happens from social studies to science on and on. And we have some brand-  new segments lined up, up the sleeves for you this season as well. So let`s get this show on the road, shall we? With all of us being back together,   again, let`s take a theme for the day. How about returning, and as students across the country head back to school this year, did you know that a   growing number are going to be returning to a four-day school week. In fact, 24 states 850 districts in the United States will have a shorter   school week this year.  Why you ask? Well, schools are adopting this method to help deal with budgetary constraints and staffing shortages. They`re also hoping a four-  day school week will help students feel less burned out and more focused. But there are downsides as well including studies showing lower test   scores, worse academic comprehension and lower graduation rates. Let`s break down this debate with a little more specific data. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Could a four-day school week become the norm? Well, more school districts are trying it out. 24 states have at least one school   district using a shortened week, some 850 districts and all. That`s a 31% increase since 2019. Shorter weeks can help schools with budgetary   constraints, staff shortages and student attendance. That flexibility can increase teacher morale, and decrease burnout in the classroom. Four-day   weeks have traditionally been more common in rural areas. Now, they`re gaining steam in metro areas like Denver, Phoenix and San Antonio as well.  But research shows there are drawbacks to a shortened school week. One study found lower math achievement in some districts a four-day weeks, but   the ill effects vanished in districts with longer school days. A second study found higher absenteeism and lower on time graduation rates compared   with five days students. Shorter school weeks can also be heading for parents costing families an extra $5,000 to $9,000 a year in childcare as   more school districts shorten the week, you can expect to hear more about this debate. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: 10 second trivia. Which of these weather patterns is a warm face signaled by weaker trade winds and warmer ocean water? Nor`easter, El Nino,   La Nina or Derecho? El Nino, Spanish for the little boy is this irregular weather pattern that occurs in the Pacific Ocean. Sticking to our returning theme this summer   brought back some really warm temperatures in many parts of the country. The summer of 2023 and parts of the nation has seen record high   temperatures at times and some projections say we could see a new record for the warmest year ever recorded.  A big reason, weather models are showing one of the strongest El Ninos in decades. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration or NOAA   announced the presence of those El Nino conditions on June 8. Years where El Ninos are present tend to be hotter as warm ocean waters that originate   in the Pacific Ocean can influence global weather patterns. These events happen every two to seven years and they vary in intensity. Scientists are   still searching for why this happens but the pattern can last for weeks or months.  More now from meteorologist Jennifer Gray, mom of one of our very own CNN tenor`s Caden, we see you Caden. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JENNIFER GRAY, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  We`ve heard so much talk about El Nino. But what is it? In fact it`s a weather phenomenon that happens between the   Pacific ocean and the atmosphere. It can have an influence on the temperature and the weather all over the world. In the springtime, the trade winds start to relax and in a normal year they come back during the Asia monsoon in the summer. During an El Nino year,   they don`t. In fact, some years, the trade winds can even reverse that has a huge impact on the Pacific Ocean.  During a normal year, warm water is pooled on the west side of the ocean, cooler water on the east side. That results in cooler waters off the coast   of California and warmer waters in the western Pacific. During an El Nino year, that thermocline tilt goes away and so warm water is spilled all the   way over to the east side of the Pacific that increases convection, it also brings thunderstorms to the coast of California and droughts to the western   side of the Pacific. We all know that El Nino will impact the world. The only question is, how will it affect you? (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  This fall will be a big test for another type of return, the return of workers to the workplace. Major companies are asking remote workers to   come on back as many as 1 million U.S. workers are facing return orders. Even zoom, the company that powered remote working for millions is asking   its employees to get on back to the cubicle. But even with all these changing mandates, the traditional office space isn`t what it used to be.   Once these buildings and skyscrapers were full of busy workers, now after the pandemic, less than 50% of office workers are going back in person. And   that`s a problem for the people that own these buildings as you can imagine, without as many tenants to pay rent many of these landlords are   having to get creative. Our CNN Business and Politics Correspondent Vanessa Yurkevich has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS & POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: There statuesque, vast and staggering and their empty, skyscrapers and office buildings, one   stacked high with businesses are experiencing high vacancy rates in the U.S. nearly 19%, 5.5% higher than before the pandemic. The pandemic emptied   offices around the country, today the number of people returning to in- person work is less than 50% in 10 major metro areas, forcing companies to rethink physical office space. Half of the biggest global companies say   they`ll need less real estate in the next three years, leaving landlords with loans to pay in a bind.  Steven Durels runs the leasing at SL Green, New York City`s largest commercial landlord with more than 30 million square feet of space to rent,   the collapsing demand for office space means their tenant vacancy rate shot up from 3% pre-pandemic to 10% today that calls for some creativity. AMANDA WEISENTHAL, HEAD OF SALES & PRODUCTION, BACKLOT:  You can build a set in here, you can have a fight scene in here. YURKEVICH:  SL Green is now working with Backlot, company that connects landlords are 332 buildings across New York and New Jersey with film and TV   companies. This episode of Law and Order was filmed in this vacant office in midtown Manhattan, the watcher on Netflix and these East Side offices. WEISENTHAL:  I think people are starting to look holistically at how they can support a revenue stream. YURKEVICH:  This year, SL Green says it will earn $3 million from film and TV shoots.  STEVEN DURELS, EVP & DIRECTOR OF LEASING, SULLIVAN: GREEN REALTY CORP.:  It`s really helped mitigate the loss of income during the downtime periods.   Empty office buildings could be turned into residential, a big need. This project in Washington D.C. once an office building is being turned into   apartments, but that`s not an easy quick fix process, less than 1% of apartments nationwide are converted from commercial properties. And across   the river in Arlington, Virginia, the city is trying to get ahead of its empty office space problem at 22%. RYAN TOUHILL, DIRECTOR, ARLINGTON ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT: I`m sitting right today in northeastern D.C. campus. Last year, university was not allowed to   take up space in an office building. YURKEVICH: Thanks to new city zoning laws, that`s now possible along with seven new types of commercial businesses like animal boarding, hydroponic   farms, and pickleball. Vanessa Yurkevich, CNN, Egg Harbor Township, New Jersey. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is about some puppy pals named Brenda and Linda. Two stray pups who are the best of friends at a   Minneapolis Animal Shelter. Well, when they got separated something dog on adorable happened. Brenda took matters into her own paws climbing a five-  foot concrete wall to join her buddy. That`s the type of puppy love that lasts forever. And get this, the shelter, they`re only going to let people   adopt them if they`re a package deal.  All right, that`s about all we have time for, for today. It`s so good to be back with all of you. And I can`t wait until you see some of our new   segments this year. One of them has to do with all the teachers out there so teachers stay on your toes and keep on shining.  Now, it`s time for my favorite part of the day. My first shout out of the school year goes to Austin, Texas Canyon Vista Middle School, rise up.   Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube Page. We hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one. I`m Coy   Wire. And we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-08-15
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone, wherever you are in this world. So happy to be here with you and hope it`s a terrific Tuesday too. I`m Coy   Wire. Welcome to CNN 10, where we walk you through the top headlines and fuel your mind with some thought-provoking stories from around the world.  We start today with the news happening on the Hawaiian island of Maui, the deadliest wildfire in the United States in more than 100 years. Lahaina, an   area on Maui known for its historic city center was almost entirely destroyed and the devastation is so bad. It looks like a war zone. Flames   have destroyed many of the homes and businesses and emergency workers are racing against time to rescue missing people.  When we recorded our show, nearly 100 people had died from the wildfires and there were warnings that that number could increase in the coming days.   Before the wildfire on Maui began, a moderate drought covered more than one-third of the island, making it more susceptible to fire.  In addition, hurricane Dora, a Category Four storm over the Pacific increased wind on the island and caused wildfires to spread around Maui   more rapidly. Other factors compounded the danger on the island. Roadblocks forcing fleeing drivers onto one narrow downtown street. This created a   bottleneck of traffic that was quickly surrounded by flames on all sides. And when the fires began emergency sirens that were created to warn people,   to seek shelter and evacuate from the flames. They didn`t sound. Instead local government used a series of social media posts that reach a smaller   number of people. The state is now going to launch a formal review to try to figure out why the emergency sirens were not activated, especially   because they were created for these types of circumstances.  There will be an estimated 6 billion in damage. Thousands of people have been evacuated or displaced. Some having lost everything. Search CNN:   Impact Your World for more information on how you can help. We`ll continue to keep you updated right here on CNN 10.  Let`s go now to Chief Climate Correspondent, Bill Weir, who`s on the ground in Maui. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) EDDY GARCIA, FORMER, MAUI RESIDENT: The trees that you guys see behind you right here, this was all from the tornado they came through.  BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT: That`s great.  GARCIA: No, we`ve never even seen a tornado in Hawaii. WEIR (voice-over): In a place so familiar with weather extremes. (On camera): Wow. It`s crazy. (Voice-over): Maui locals have never seen anything like the firestorm that obliterated Lahaina. DANIEL GOLDBER, BOAT CAPTAIN: You just saw a little like smolder of smoke. Now we`re like, oh, like the house it survived. And now there`s a little   brush fire. And then within like five minutes, the whole thing was the gold just went up plane, really. There`s nobody there to put anything out. WEIR (voice-over): We`re just pulling into Lahaina now, just getting our first glimpse at this town after hearing these nightmare stories. And it is   worse than you can imagine. It looks like a World War II set, like a bomb went off here. There`s putter, scorched devastation, everywhere, melted   boats in the harbor, what was once the capital of the kingdom of Hawaii and one of the most well-preserved towns in the nation is ash, including Bill   Wyland`s famous art gallery. And he says he escaped the flames on his Harley-Davidson, riding around evacuate trapped between fire and ocean. BILL WYLAND, ART GALLERY OWNER: I took the car instead of motorcycle I probably been with everybody else jumping into water. It was -- it was -- I   mean, it was flames were shooting over the top coming out. I didn`t want to look behind me because I knew they were behind me. WEIR (on camera): And there`s nowhere to go, you`re pen between --  WYLAND: Just pen in that fire happened --  WEIR: -- fire and ocean? WYLAND: That`s what happened. All the people I think is, all those cars that were sitting waiting for someone to move in front of them, no one was   moving anywhere, you are -- you`re dead in the water. WEIR: This is the historic banyan tree, 150-year-old majestic tree at the center of Lahaina town. It looks like it may have survived. It needs water   desperately to survive right now. But for the locals who are coming down and looking at the damage, this is such a sign of hope that maybe their   iconic tree will have lived when, when so much else is gone here, but the history can never be replaced. Right here, this is the first hotel in Hawaii. The pioneer hotel, pioneer theater it`s completely gone. Right over here was the library. It`s just   now a stone shell of scorched blocks around front street there, Fleetwood, Mick Fleetwood of -- of the band Fleetwood Mac. His place is gutted out   with flames. It`s just unrecognizable. One of the most charming beloved port cities anywhere in the world is just scorched like a bomb went off. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: 10 second trivia. Accra is the capital city of what African nation?  Angola, Ghana, Botswana or Rwanda?  Answer is going to be Ghana, located in Western Africa, translating to warrior king. Let`s travel to Ghana now to meet one of our CNN heroes.   After watching many family members and neighbors struggle with access to basic healthcare, they decided to make it their life`s mission to bring   medical care to remote communities in Ghana, through his doctor`s office on wheels. Now, their hope health man has served more than 4,000 people in the   community. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) OSEI BOATENG, CNN HERO: In Ghana, many people don`t have access to healthcare. We`ve designed the van like a clinic when we are traveling,   especially in long distances. There`s a lot of potholes. There have been a lot of times where our car got stuck in the mud. This is our daily   experience.  Sometimes because of the poor network, we can get home as late as 12:00 a.m. We bring healthcare to the doorstep of rural and unserved communities   in Ghana.  I grew up in a very small community in Ghana. We grew up where people had to walk several miles to go to the nearest hospital, which is located in   the urban areas.  There were a lot of people who lost the lives due to diseases that could have been easily prevented or at a bare minimum managed. Early screenings   wasn`t an option for us. I lost my grandmother and my auntie. My grandmother was a very big part of my life. It was very hard when we lost   her and it was due to something that could have been easily prevented. That is the painful part.  This is my family. And I said that once I come of age, I`m going to ensure that people have access to healthcare. I took my education very seriously.   So in 2016, I got in a scholarship to study at Cornell and really learned about how diseases affected the human body.  I realized that these people don`t have the luxury of time. The food that they put on the table is determined by what they sell in the market. If I   tell them to go to the hospital, there was no way they`re going to go.  Thank you so much for coming. It`s going to be a long day.  So then, I had to think like, how do I bring healthcare to them? And that was the birth of the mobile health van. So, we just arrived at one of the   rural communities that we`ve been working with. Currently, we are setting up our PPEs, disinfected, taking out our diagnostics and also medications. (Through translator) As you are all aware we came here from time to time for this health outreach.  90 to 95% everyone that comes through has one health issue or the other. And the first person they meet is our operation director, so he will   collect the demographics like name, age. And then the person will move on to the nurse. The nurse will collect the vitals. And once the nurse is   done, the patient will move onto the doctor.  We`ve been to communities where they haven`t seen a doctor before. Literally, they haven`t been to the hospital before. Seeing how the moms,   the fathers, the grandmothers, the children are really excited and really grateful. Words cannot describe the feeling that you get providing care for   someone who otherwise wouldn`t be alive if your mobile health van wasn`t there. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, a story that made some zoo goers bubble with laughter rub, dub, dub. That`s a huge bear in that   tub. meat fin, a 450-pound black bear swimming around in all sorts of suds at a zoo in Knoxville, Tennessee getting so fresh and so clean, clean. It`s   actually a small pond that was being cleaned with soap one day. And when they filled it up, there were bubbles galore and honey fin jumped right, in   loving it. Very cute.  Now onto my favorite part of the day, I want to give a special shout out to Summit Academy, North Middle School in Romulus, Michigan, we see you. Today   is August 15th, it`s National Relaxation Day, so smell the flowers and cool a soup, shoot. Maybe even go take a bubble bath. I`m Coy Wire. And we are   CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-08-16
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, from Los Angeles, lovely people, we`re halfway through to the week. We`re going to keep on grinding and shining   because that`s what we do. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10.  And today is our first hashtag your word Wednesday of the season. Follow me at Coy Wire on Instagram, Snapchat, and TikTok, and put your unique   vocabulary word in the comment section on my most recent post. And we`re going to choose one winner for tomorrow`s show. On Instagram, my most recent post is about Jesse Billauer, championship surfer who`s overcoming incredible adversity in his life to become an   inspiration for people all around the world. I`m here in LA with my producer, Ryan Bergeron, dad of CNN tenor, Sylvie. What`s up Sylvie. We   can`t wait to share Jesse`s story with all of you soon. Now to your news, late on Monday evening, former president Donald Trump was criminally charged for the fourth time this year in a sweeping indictment   from the State of Georgia. Let`s break it down. An indictment is another term used when a person is formally accused of committing a crime and it`s   one of the first moves made in our legal system before a case can go before a trial, an indictment is different from being convicted of a crime, and   it`s also not the same as receiving a guilty or not guilty verdict.  The former president is now facing 91 charges across four indictments. The indictment Monday night included 18 defendants in addition to Trump. And it   was the result of a long running investigation that started in early 2021. Monday`s charges concerned Trump and others conduct after the 2020 election   and say that Trump`s team allegedly misled state officials in Georgia, organized fake electors, harassed and election worker and breached election   equipment in rural Georgia county. Trump has denied all wrongdoing and his attorneys slammed the indictment saying that the grand jury presentation   was one-sided and called Monday`s events, shocking and absurd. This all comes at the same time that Trump is running for president in 2024. And he   is the current front runner for the Republican party.  We`ll keep you posted as this story unfolds right here on CNN 10. Up next, we have more information on the devastation in Hawaii after wildfires ravaged the island of Maui. It`s still not known what started the   fires, but there`s been a renewed focus on the power lines that fell on the ground in the burned area. And the gust of winds that knocked them over.  Now, some locals are blaming Hawaiian electric for not shutting off power to high-risk areas. They say that could have prevented the deadly fire. The   fires have also brought tension in Maui between locals and tourism as residents and officials warn tourists against traveling to Maui especially   as many hotels are now needed to host evacuee and first responders. We`ll go now to our Chief Climate Correspondent, Bill Weir, who met with   dedicated individuals, bringing aid and resources to the region. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHARLIE FLECK, MAUI RESIDENT: Me and Brittany will lead the front. We got right behind us. Just stay close. BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): When Charlie and Brittany Fleck saw pictures of the devastation on Lahaina, the couple from   Maui knew they had to do something. C. FLECK: Come, come. We need to give you cash. We got cash. BRITTANY FLECK, MAUI RESIDENT: You need some money? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes. Thank you. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, we need ices right now. C. FLECK: OK. B. FLECK: I think there`s a big ice truck. C. FLECK: We got help on the way. WEIR (voice-over): So they put out a plea on Facebook. And when thousands of dollars began rolling in, they began handing it out. C. FLECK: Hey. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you so much. C. FLECK: We`re coming for you. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you. C. FLECK: Aloha. WEIR (voice-over): But that didn`t seem like enough, so they organized a caravan and sweet talked their way past red tape and checkpoints. And when   they finally saw what Lahaina looks like for the first time, they wept. But just on the edge of the burn scars, we find an inspiring example of Hawaiian togetherness. ARCHIE KALEPA, HALL OF FAME WATERMAN: Towel for your neck. WEIR (on-camera): Cold towel, OK. That is Aloha hospitality. KALEPA: Yes. WEIR (on-camera): Thank you. KALEPA: There you go, man. Right there over your neck. Keep you nice and cool. WEIR (voice-over): Archie Kalepa is a hall of fame surfer and lifeguard with Maui roots that go back nine generations. (on-camera): This is your actual house here or? KALEPA: Yes, this is my actual home. And we was really lucky because our neighbors, they were here fighting the fire right at this corner. And the   fire department said, this is our last stand. We`re going to hold the line right here. WEIR (voice-over): While there`s so much frustration over the official response so far, he says authorities deserve some understanding, given the   size of the disaster. KALEPA: This right here is a crime scene. And so what people don`t understand is the government has to do due diligence before they start   moving in. WEIR (on-camera): So it`s a humanitarian response in the middle of a working crime scene. KALEPA: Exactly. WEIR (voice-over): But at another relief pod on a beach nearby, frustration has turned to anger. ALIKA PENEKU, VOLUNTEER: Nobody came for help for us, you know what I mean, we rely on people like you guys that get compassion like we do. You know   what I mean? That willing to help us because, please, we need help. We need help. We need the next step. This is just the first inning. This is the   first inning of what we`re facing. KALEPA: Tourism is our number one source of income. I would hope that our representatives, our politicians, our government would ask the people from   here, when can we open? They should not be telling us, oh, we want to open six months from now. The truth of the matter is, when you look at the   overall devastation, we are not going to be ready to allow people to see what we`re living through in six months. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia. Which archipelago is said to have inspired a Shakespearean play and is nicknamed the shipwreck capital of the world? Bermuda, Canary Islands, Seychelles, or Galapagos Islands? Often considered to have inspired Shakespeare`s the tempest, Bermuda is the correct answer here. And up next, we`re taking you to meet one doctor who   has bred over 100,000 snails that were thought to be extinct, Lesser Bermuda Land Snail, as the name suggests come from Bermuda, but a number of   environmental factors have caused the snails to be critically endangered. We`ll meet one man, whose mission is to reintroduce them back to the wild   and will join the snails as they take part in a 3000-mile journey from a zoo in the north of England, all the way to Bermuda. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: In a small collection of shipping containers, just outside Chester Zoo in the U.K. Gerardo Garcia is looking after plethora of   newts, frogs, salamanders, and snails. As head of ectotherm he is in charge of almost 60% of the animals in the entire zoo, but often the creatures   that have almost zero scientific information known about them. Since 2013, Gerardo has carried out much of his field work in Bermuda with two native   species of snail, the Greater and Lesser Bermuda Land Snails. Having grown up in the containers at Chester Zoo, the snails are now making the 3000-mile journey to Bermuda where wildlife ecologist, Mark Outerbridge   is waiting for them. GERARDO GARCIA, CURATOR, LOWER VERTEBRATES AND INVERTEBRATES, CHESTER ZOO: Good to see you again.  MARK OUTERBRIDGE, WILDLIFE ECOLOGIST, DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENT, BERMUDA: All right. Bermuda`s biodiversity is -- has its roots, its origins with many other islands. So we`re talking about a relatively small land area and in   Bermuda`s case, a very small land area in the middle of the ocean. And unfortunately we have evidence that we have lost species in Bermuda. They   are -- they are extinct. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Starting with only 60 of those snails, Gerardo`s team has since bred and released more than a hundred thousand. One of the   biggest wildlife reintroductions in history. Now, he`s returning to one of the release sites, Trunk Island to check on their progress and work out if   the area will be suitable for releasing their smaller cousins. GARCIA: Was it this the first spot?  TREVOR RAWSON, CONSERVATION MANAGER, TRUNK ISLAND: So this was the first spot we ever released the snails. We brought a bunch of Palm Fronds here   because we saw how much they were feeding off Palm Fronds in on ports island, sorry. So far so good. Let`s see if we can find any.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yeah, I can see one right now. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I see one there. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: A careful rummage with the fallen Palm leaves reveals a thriving community of the Greater Bermuda Land Snails and indicates a   perfect location to release the lesser snails. GARCIA: Many people would ask why to bothered about our snails and, um, the question is, why we bothered about any other species that we have on the   planet? Every single one animal and plants, every single one has a role to play. You may, we don`t know, we may don`t understand, we may underestimate   the role, but everybody has a very important ecological role. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: And for today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, Thanksgiving only comes once a year, but soon rollercoaster enthusiasts may be able to get a dose   of Thanksgiving gravy whenever they want. That`s right. Check out the plans for this. Thanksgiving themed roller coaster at the Holiday World Amusement   Park in Indiana. The plans come complete with a jar of cranberries sauce. The ride called good gravy is set to open during the Park`s 2024 Season.  And now on my favorite part of the day, I want to give a special shout out to James Wood High School in Winchester, Virginia. Rise up, looking forward   to your submissions for your word Wednesday. So bring it baby. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-08-17
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, from the beautiful Southern California coastline, beautiful people. It`s Thursday. So, happy Friday Eve. I`m Coy   Wire. This is CNN 10. We journey all over the world, bringing you the best 10 minutes in news. We`re still here working on a story about a surfer,   inspiring people all over the world. That story soon to come. We start today though, by recalling two summers ago in the nation of Afghanistan, where the Taliban, a radical Islamist group that had   previously ruled Afghanistan in the 1990s, took back power. This happened after the United States, controversially completed its withdrawal of troops   in the region. The Taliban initially presented itself as a more moderate version than that, which ruled previously, however, after their takeover,   life became very difficult, especially for women and girls living in the country. And they lost rights that were previously guaranteed to them. That   the Taliban rule has been characterized as repress and brutal.  After they rose to power, they closed schools, banned women from attending university, took away their ability to work in most areas, banned them from   public places like parks and gyms and even restricted travel. Plus, dwindling foreign aid to the country means that millions of Afghans are   battling drought, hunger, and illness.  Today, we`ll join CNN International Correspondent, Anna Coren, and hear from an Afghan woman 20-year-old Zahra, who says she can no longer ride her   bike, go to school or go outside without covering her face. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANNA COREN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): In the corner of her room on a piece of string hanging by paper clips are the treasured   memories of 20-year-old Zahra. ZAHRA, UNIVERSITY STUDENT: They are my favorite people that I have them in my life. COREN (voice-over): Photos, drawings, mementos, a secret world of a life once lived that this Afghan university student now grieves for. ZAHRA: When I stand in front of the mirror, when I look at myself, I just see a different Zahra from two years ago. COREN (voice-over): On the 15th of August 2021, Zahra`s life as she knew it was shattered. The Taliban swept to power after the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan following its 20-year war, handing back control to the same group of   Islamic extremists who ruled in the 1990s. While the Taliban promised to be more moderate and honor women`s rights within Islamic law, the past two years have brought only a hardline stance   towards women. The closure of secondary school for girls, the forced implementation of the burqa, the restriction on travel without a male chaperone, the banning of   women from universities and working at NGOs including the United Nations. And just last month the Taliban closed all beauty salons that employed   roughly 60,000 women, many of them the sole breadwinners of their homes. MAHBOUBA SERAJ, AFGHAN WOMEN`S RIGHT ACTIVIST: Women`s freedom doesn`t exist. There is no such a thing as women`s freedom anymore. COREN (voice-over): Women`s rights activist Mahbouba Seraj, who stayed in Kabul while more than a million Afghans fled, says the Taliban government   is erasing women from society. SERAJ: Even the rights that we had in Islam, even the rights that we had in Sharia, we are losing all of that. So if it is not annihilation, what is it   then? COREN (voice-over): For Zahra, an aspiring designer, it`s very clear what the Taliban demands of her. ZAHRA: Just to stay at home, get married, you have to give birth to children, that`s it. And this is your life. This is what women made for. COREN (voice-over): While the international community repudiates the Taliban`s treatment of women and girls, the Taliban is refusing to listen,   saying it will not be pressured. BILAL KARIMI, TALIBAN DEPUTY SPOKESPERSON (through translator): Afghanistan was freed from occupation. Afghans were able to regain their country,   freedom, government and will. The only way to solve the problem is understanding and dialogue. Pressure and force are not logical. COREN (voice-over): But human rights activists fear international condemnation is waning, and that the Taliban, desperate for international   recognition, is gradually being normalized. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. Ulaanbaatar is the capital of what country? Thailand, Somalia, Mongolia, or Bangladesh? The main industrial center of Ulaanbaatar is the capital and largest city in the nation of Mongolia.  We`re headed to the central Asian country now with CNN International Business Correspondent Richard Quest, we`ll learn more about the famous   silk road and we`ll dive deep down below the surface to see how the natural resources in this sparsely populated country impact the economy today.   We`ll also learn about the geopolitics of this country and the unique demographics that make this place special. And we`ll consider how the   region`s history may shape it`s future (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RICHARD QUEST, CNN ANCHOR & CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Planes without end towering dunes of the desert. Once I see the Mongolian step first hand, I   understand why they call this the land of the eternal blue sky. This is the most sparsely populated sovereign country in the world. One`s home to one   of the largest empires in the history of humanity. At its height, the Mongol Empire stretched from the Pacific Ocean to the Persian Gulf.  (On camera): There`s a giant statue of Genghis Khan that looks over the main square here. Now, the empire that he put together, not only was it one   of the largest ever, it was also done in record time. It took him 25 years to put together an empire, the size of which it took the Romans 400 years   to do. (Voice-over): The trading route known as the Silk Road started around this time. And it continues to influence the global economy today. Mongolia`s   immense mineral wealth and underground bounty of copper and gold. It`s learning in foreign investors. (On camera): Nearly a mile underground at Rio`s mine in the Gobi desert. And in some ways it`s quite difficult to connect this basic mining   operation with the energy transition until you realize this is what it`s all about. This is the original awe. It has copper, gold and silver within   it, but it is the copper that today is the most valuable commodity because it is the copper that everybody wants.  (Voice-over): Geopolitics proves a delicate tight rope with this small democracy. It`s sandwiched between Russia and China. And it`s also trying   to entice investment from Western allies. And last year, a corruption scandal over coal exports, that to mass protests across the capital who   land batter. Inflation, the boogeyman of economies globally is more than 10%. And yet underneath it all, there are resources of minerals and   humanity that promise such a great future.  (On camera): The old and the new, Mongolia truly is a place of opportunity. Not only because of the resources underground, the metals, the ores and the   like, but also because of the human capital that is here. Two-thirds of the population are under 30. So with the right policies on education,   investment of future direction and provided, they managed to convince them not to leave the country, but to stay here and invest in Mongolia. It`s all   there for the future. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And for today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, honorificabilitudinitatibus truck driver from Omaha, Nebraska. Tim Dean has   a squeaky-clean driving record, celebrating a huge milestone. He reached 5 million accident-free miles at his company Wener Enterprises. He was   greeted by a celebration of honks and cheers from people who all gathered to celebrate the miles that went into this milestone. He is only the second   person ever to accomplish such a milestone.  And now onto my favorite part of the day, I want to give a special shout out to Chaparral Middle School in Diamond Bar, California. We see you.   Today`s word of the day was honorificabilitudinitatibus from at lead to the reach it`s said to be the longest word ever used in Shakespeare`s works   derived from a medieval Latin word, it can be translated as the state of being able to achieve honors. Well done. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-08-18
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, all you superstars rising in bright light shining, happy Friyay. Let`s finish this week strong and dominate before we   start dreaming and scheming for the weekend, two days of endless possibilities. Those were just around the corner. But today we`re going to   take you from Hawaii to Colorado, then to the Peruvian wilds, but first San Francisco for our futuristic roadblock.  California recently decided that some Robo taxi companies can operate driverless cars around the clock in San Francisco. The decision passed in a   three to one vote by regulators. Before the vote, the approved companies, Cruise and Waymo could only offer limited service to locals. But now you   can hail a self-driving taxi in the golden city at any time, but the venture already hit its first roadblock.  Literally over the weekend, self-driving cars owned by crews caused a traffic jam downtown. Witnesses say the cars blocked intersections for   about 15 minutes. Imagine if this happened and you were going to be late getting somewhere, you can run, but you can`t ride. Some are worried that   these types of conundrums might block emergency vehicles, too.  Local police, fire, and sheriff`s associations have all expressed similar concerns in letters to the California Public Utilities Commission. And the   San Francisco Fire Department, well, they told CNN it has recorded more than 50 incidents of driverless cars interfering with emergency responses   just this year alone. Cruise addressed the traffic jam on social media explaining that a nearby music festival had affected wireless bandwidth,   delaying the connection to the driverless cars. The company has told CNN though that it`s 24/7 driverless service is a major milestone. One that   could make transportation safer and more accessible. What say you sunshine? Is the world ready for self-driving cars? Are self-driving cars ready to be   self-driving cars? Or do you think we should just park this idea for a bit? I know, sorry. Car puns are exhausting.  Next up, we have a new report from CNN`s Chief Climate Correspondent, Bill Weir on the Hawaiian island of Maui where deadly fires continue to burn.   More than 100 people have lost their lives in the disaster. Many more still missing. In Maui`s upcountry, Bill met volunteer first responders who are   taking desperate measures to put out the flames and a family that`s still holding onto hope for a missing mother. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BILL WEIR, CNN CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  With an upcountry fire, not fully contained Maui`s Fire Department stretched painfully thin and   winds kicking up once again, some residents around Kula are using sprinklers and hope to protect their homes.  (On camera):  Whoa, careful, careful.  (Voice-over):  And I met volunteer first responders trying to knock down hot spots with bottled water. (On camera):  Oh man, you can feel the heat. MERILL KALOPODES, VOLUNTEER:  Because there`s a smoldering pit over there.  WEIR:  Oh.  KALOPODES:  And all it needs is a good wind to -- to get it going. By the time we got there, it was already flaming.  WEIR:  Really?  KALOPODES:  Yeah, it was -- it was started off with just a little smoke and then we said, OK, let`s get some water, haul it over there. And then by the   time we got over there, it started -- it started flaming already. So, you know, we`re going to go back and go put some more water on it. WEIR:  In this city, smokey brush one wrong step into smoldering ash means a burn foot.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  That`s what happened there. I went to go check that one. And the -- and the switch`s so deep, you can`t get through it. WEIR:  But they stay added until they`re spotted by a helicopter dropping water, scooped from swimming pools and they finally get the help they need. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. Located at the border of Nevada and Arizona, the Hoover Dam controls the flow of what water? Yellowstone River, Colorado River, Rio Grande, or Missouri River?  This national historic landmark is located on the Colorado River. Let`s take a ride down the Colorado river now. It`s an important waterway that   has been shrinking steadily over the past century. For the first time in years, a strong snow pack has raised water levels on the river and federal   officials are easing water restrictions in response. The decision could restore billions of gallons of H2O to affected states. But as CNN   Correspondent, Lucy Kafanov found out, some people think it`s too soon to celebrate. Hold on As we join her in Utah on a raft ride down the iconic   river. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SINJIN EBERLE, COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR, AMERICAN RIVERS:  This river is iconic. LUCY KAFANOV, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Sinjin Eberle has spent much of his life on the Colorado River. EBERLE:  It`s a remarkable, remarkable area of the world. KAFANOV:  As an avid adventurer and Colorado River advocate, his mission in life is to protect it.  EBERLE:  This is one of the most important places in the nation. And it`s one of the places that we need to be really diligent about taken care of   because it -- it does contribute so much to all of us.  KAFANOV:  The Colorado River is the lifeblood of this region. Powering cities, watering farms, and quenching the thirst of some 40 million people.   It`s a critical refuge for wildlife and a playground that`s under threat. EBERLE:  It`s being overused. There`s more demand on the river. There`s more water being taken out of the river than the river can handle. If we   continue to over extract the bank account, we are going to run dry.  KAFANOV:  An unusually wet and snowy winter brought some relief, replenishing snow pack and boosting water levels for the first time in   years. But with the rapidly changing climate experts are warning, it`s not enough. EBERLE:  It`s been so hot and so dry in the Southwest. That much of the benefit we got out of the snow pack is literally evaporated. KAFANOV:  The one or two extra wet winters is not going to solve this crisis? EBERLE:  My concern is that people will assume that the situation is getting much better and that we can take our foot off the gas in terms of   conservation. This system can crash and it can crash fast. KAFANOV:  Over the last century, the river has shrunk by roughly 20%. Those losses are more apparent in the lower basin states, but the impacts are   being felt across the entire waterway. (On camera):  Raft into Colorado is a breathtaking experience. It`s a slow and sometimes bumpy ride through ancient time at a moment when it seems   like the Earth`s clock is speeding up. Even here, the effect of climate change, rapid growth and water over consumption are threatening the very   existence of this river. DAVIDE IPPOLITO, COLORADO RIVER RAFTING GUIDE:  We boat through Cataract Canyon. It`s the best roller coaster in north America. Class IV Rapids all   the way down when it`s high water. And yet my most dangerous part of my job is when I get to this ramp, it`s extremely dangerous. KAFANOV:  The river has shrunk so much that it`s nearly impossible for Colorado River guides like Davide Ippolito to pull boats out of the water. IPPOLITO:  It`s kind of like pyramid building. You have guides putting roller tubes underneath boats, as that boat is pulled up, guides are   running and putting those tubes under until we get to flat land on top like ancient Egyptian technology, literally. KAFANOV:  It`s such a hassle that many tours now float an extra 50 miles downstream adding up to two days, not to mention cost to a trip. What   worries Ippolito more than the business impact is the threat to future generations. IPPOLITO:  So if we want to live out west and we want to protect our heritage out here and we want to have enough water for our kids and   grandkids, then we need to solve these issues now. It`s -- it`s no longer problem we can kick down the line. KAFANOV:  A sentiment echoed by Eberle. EBERLE:  It would be heartbreaking to lose this place. KAFANOV:  Lucy Kafanov, CNN on the Colorado River in Moab. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10 from Otishi National Park in Peru, a group of researchers making history, discovering a brand-new   species of snake. They named the yellow brown serpent after action hero, Harrison Ford, AKA Indiana Jones. And I`m rep telling you that`s witty,   because Indiana Jones was famously afraid of snakes. Tachymenoides harrisonfordi is the name. Now, I don`t know slither or not, you`re afraid   of snakes, but if you are, you just might have ophidiophobia or an extreme fear of snakes.  Special shout out to home of the Mustangs, New Washington, Middle and New Washington High School in new Washington, Indiana. Thanks for subscribing   in commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube Channel for a shout out. Let`s go out now and make this world a bit of a better place today. Shall we? Even if   it`s just making someone smile today. Remember you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2023-08-21
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello and happy Monday, sunshine. I hope you had a wonderful weekend. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, here to help you fuel your   mind and dominate this week and have a little fun while doing it.  First, though, our lead story of the day, a hurricane with fierce winds and heavy downpours, it`s forced residents in Southern California to evacuate   and first responders to brace for water rescues as it was expected to slam into the U.S. coastline yesterday.  Hurricane Hilary was a Category 1 storm with maximum winds of 80 miles per hour at the time of this recording, as it moved on a north, northwest path   at 21 miles per hour. It was expected to weaken to a tropical storm before reaching the coast. But large swells were likely to create life threatening   surf and rip current conditions.  The California governor`s office said Hilary could be the wettest tropical cyclone in state history. And one of the most devastating storms in more   than a decade, the national oceanic and atmospheric administration or NOAA said, if Hilary makes landfall in California as a tropical storm, it would   be the first to do so in the state in nearly 84 years, storms like this rarely hit California because of the cold currents off the coast. They tend   to weaken storms and act as somewhat of a shield around Western coast there. Parts of California and even Nevada and Arizona could suddenly   receive a year`s worth of rain or more.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) GOV. GAVIN NEWSOM, (D) CALIFORNIA: So today I assign an emergency declaration of proclamation in preparation of the storms. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: California Governor Gavin Newsom proclaimed a State of Emergency Saturday for a large swath of Southern parts of the state. With up to 10   inches of rain expected in some areas, winds were expected to knock out power for many on Sunday and Monday.  Parts of Mexico, roughly a 300-mile stretch along the Baja, California Peninsula were also under hurricane warning with "locally catastrophic   flash and urban flooding," according to the Hurricane Center. CNN`s Natasha Chen was in Southern California ahead of this rare storms impact. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NATASHA CHEN, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: This is a weather event that`s created a lot of questions for people in Southern California because they   have never seen a tropical storm warning. And the last time a tropical storm made landfall in California was more than 80 years ago. So, a lot of   people are wondering what exactly they should do. Officials have said a lot of the preparations that folks would`ve made for winter storms and flooding   months ago apply here asking people to please take advantage of the sandbags that are being given out to bring materials indoors, to not go   outside or drive in the weather on Sunday and Monday, if they don`t have to.  Officials have also been very proactive and going to outdoor areas where there are encampments of unhoused people trying to convince them to take   shelter inside before the storm, really comes through the most intense of which is supposed to be Sunday afternoon, at least through the San Diego   area with very strong rains and winds. We are seeing a lot of events being canceled or postponed.  In fact, Major League Baseball moved their Sunday games to Saturday. There are concerts like ones at the Hollywood bowl being canceled. The U.S. Navy   has even temporarily moved their ships and submarines away from San Diego just during this storm, at least until it passes through. Catalina island   in Los Angeles county has been warned for people to -- they`re strongly encouraged to leave that island that they`re likely to get hit. A lot of   high-water rescue vehicles prepositioned. A lot of personnel out there ready to act as soon as this weather comes through. JENNIFER GRAY, CNN METEOROLOGIST: In the U.S. flash floods kill more people than tornadoes, hurricanes or lightning, a flash flood creates a rush of   moving water that can sweep a grown man off his feet, a car off the road, and even your entire home off its foundation. When the ground becomes so saturated that water can no longer seep into the soil, it begins to run off quickly into rivers and streams and this causes   a rise in water and a flash.  Densely populated areas have an extremely high-risk of flash flooding with the additional concrete and less grassy areas for the water to soak into   the soil. And they can see flash flooding very quickly. And mountain is terrain the combination of gravity. Plus, the easy runoff can lead to   catastrophic flooding. When all of that water is funneled into rivers creeks, and even the valleys.  Remember flash flooding can happen in the blink of an eye. That`s why it`s important to stay alert and pay attention in case a flash flood watch or   warning is issued for your area. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia. Which of these locations would be found on the moon? Plain of Jars, Sea of Tranquility, Crater Lake or Mount Olympus? All of these sites are actually located on earth, except the Sea of Tranquility. Chosen for its smooth flat terrain, the Sea of Tranquility was the site of the first moon landing by the U.S. in 1969. But did you know that there`s a   new space race going on between the United States, China, India, and Russia. And the big focus is landing on the moon`s Southern pole. Why the   lunar Southern pole, it`s all about terrain and lighting, large mountains and deep craters at the south pole of the moon create permanently shadowed   and very cold areas that scientists believe could hold ice that would have valuable scientific information, but that terrain and those conditions make   for a difficult landing.  And on Sunday, there was a major setback for Russia`s space program. Roscosmos, Russia`s Space Agency reported that their Luna-25 space crafts   crashed into the surface of the moon. This was set to be Russia`s first lunar Lander in 47 years, the pilotless craft would`ve been the first ever   craft to land on the moon south pole. But it went spinning uncontrollably while in orbit.  So next up is India. India`s pilotless craft is scheduled to make a lunar landing there just two days from now. India`s last attempt to land on the   moon in 2019, ended with that craft also crashing into the moon surface. The U.S. while they`re aiming to be the first country to land there with a   crude mission planned for 2025.  China, they`re also hoping to land there before the end of the decade. As it stands only the United States, the Soviet Union and China have   successfully soft landed anywhere on the moon  And for today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, we`re hanging 10. Well, this silly marine mammal making waves in San Diego, it`s become a bit of a   celebrity among local surfers there who say it brings them pure joy. CNN`s Jeanne Moos seals the deal. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT: There`s a rookie surfer off the coast of San Diego and all of the human surfers have given him their   seal of approval. JENNY KIM, SURFER: A moment of pure happiness for me. MOOS: Jenny Kim gladly made room for this Harbor seal pop on her surfboard day after day, he showed up at Pacific beach and hung out with those who   usually hang tan. Even marine experts like seaworld`s Jeni Smith were mystified. JENI SMITH, SAN DIEGO SEAWORLD, RESCUE SUPERVISOR: For some odd reason was hopping from surfboard to surfboard to surfboard, definitely not normal. MOOS: Harbor seals are usually standoffish, but this one was extra friendly. Chill climbing aboard rolling off. Instead of being antisocial,   he was in sync riding the waves with banded. The surfers named him Sammy after the children`s book.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Sammy The Seal. MOOS: The man who shot this drone footage, Ed Hartel found the seal inspiring.  ED HARTEL, VIDEOGRAPHER: In a time of darkness, this has been the light. MOOS: Seaworld San Diego`s phone rang off the hook with calls about Sammy their rescue team checked on him and found him healthy. Why would he   gravitate to surf boards? SMITH: My first instinct was maybe there`s sharks in the water. MOOS: Sharks have killed seals and sea lions at this beach. But Jeni says, Sammy seemed calm and unafraid. KIM: His face was really close to him as if he`s he was going to kiss me like. MOOS: Sealed, not with a kiss, but a sniff. She posted on Instagram, never getting rid of this board. KIM: Such a magical moment of connection with the nature. MOOS: When the beach boys said, everybody, who knew everybody would include Sammy The Seal. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Serving USA. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Finally, my favorite part of the day, special shoutout to Lake County Middle School in Ridgeley, Tennessee, go Falcons. Fun fact about Falcons,   did you know that some Falcons can see their prey from more than a mile away? And when they spot that pray, look out, they can swoop down with mind   blowing speed, a pair of green Falcon named frightful set the world record in 1999, diving down at 242 miles per hour. I love Falcons, rise up. See   you tomorrow, everyone. I`m Coy Wire. And we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-08-22
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello beautiful people. Welcome to another episode of CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news. And it`s the best because   of you. Bonus shout out to start today`s show Mr. Neves in the history class at Cumberland High School in Cumberland Rhode Island. You rock. Let`s   get this show rocking and rolling, shall we? We start with an update on Hurricane Hilary. By the time Hilary made landfall early Sunday, it had downgraded to a tropical storm, that means   the maximum winds drop below 74 miles per hour. This Tropical Storm tore into the Mexican Peninsula of Baja California, killing at least one person   before crossing the border to California.  There, Hilary continued a destructive path setting records along the way. Sunday morning Death Valley received a month`s worth of rain in one hour.   Downtown Los Angeles was hit with nearly two and a half inches of rain, breaking a record for a rainy summer day that goes back nearly 150 years.  Palm Springs saw about half a year`s worth of rain only in just a six hours` time. As of Monday morning, Hilary had lost its tropical status and   was reclass to a post tropical cyclone, a rotating storm that can still carry heavy rain and strong winds. And it did Hilary traveled north hitting   central Nevada with 35 mile per hour winds triggering multiple warnings of life-threatening floods across Southern California and Nevada. More than 25   million people were placed under flood watches as a result. If you`re joining us from out west we hope you, your families and friends are safe   and well. WIRE:  10 second trivia. American educator, Frank Cyr, is best known for contributions to what?  Mathematics, Physical fitness, School buses or Whiteboards? Frank Cyr is known as the father of the yellow school bus for helping to set its standards.  Fun fact about those yellow buses. Did you know that about 25 million students riding the bus to school each year but this year, there`s an added   challenge. There`s a nationwide shortage of bus drivers and that is making it tough for some students to get back to school. CNN`s Athena Jones has   more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We are about 58 bus drivers short. ATHENA JONES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  From North Carolina to Louisiana, a rough start to the school year as districts across the   country face a shortage of bus drivers. Each year about half a million buses transport some 25 million children but low pay odd hours and   increased competition from companies like FedEx and Amazon are some of the factors making it harder to find drivers.  Albemarle County, Virginia getting rid of some bus stops.  CHARMANE WHITE, DIR. OF TRANSPORTATION, VA PUBLIC SCHOOLS:  It breaks my heart that we had to do that. Right now, it is a driver shortage. JONES:  Jefferson County Colorado creating what it calls bus hubs, combining stops in a central location. Some districts using staggered   schedules. IRANETTA WRIGHT, SUPERINTENDENT CINCINNATI, OHIO:  We have four start times, an early start school is paired with a later start school.  JONES:  Facing a driver shortage, Kentucky`s largest school district contracted with a company to map out new routes. But the plan failed,   leading to a disastrous first day of kindergarten for Bethany and Ryan Baumann`s daughter and forcing officials to cancel school for more than a   week. BETHANY BAUMANN, PARENT:  It`s like they couldn`t get a hold of any of the bus drivers.  JONES:  That morning Bethany says they waited 40 minutes for the bus before she gave up and made the 10-minute drive herself. That evening, they waited   more than two hours for the bus before calling the police, frantic. The superintendent vowing to do better when school restarts. DR. MARTY POLLIO, SUPERINTENDENT, KY PUBLIC SCHOOLS:  We made mistakes, but we`ve owned up to them and we`re going to fix them.  JONES: But any long-term solution may have to address drivers paychecks. MOLLY MCGEE-HEWITT, NATIONAL ASSOC. FOR PUPIL TRANSPORTATION:  One of the key components of this shortage is compensation for drivers and that isn`t   in salaries and fringe benefits. It`s in the workday that they`re having. It`s in training and assistance that they get to do their jobs. It`s trying   to expand out hours so that they have a full-time job. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  From buses to jeeps, we`re about to meet Stacey Buckner, who modified her Jeep Wrangler to take community outreach off road and talk   about a sweet ride. Stacy supports homeless veterans in North Carolina with showers, laundry and fresh meals, all from our souped-up Jeep. Our CNN Hero   has helped more than 1000 veterans. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) STACEY BUCKNER, CNN HERO:  There should be no homeless vets period, none. Right now there`s over 30,000 homeless veterans in the United States. The   number is probably greater than that. A lot of these veterans they`re deep in the woods. We`re going down to one of our homeless encampments. I have   several veterans that I`ve actually been looking for that got displaced.  It`s not that they don`t want to be found, they don`t want to be in the public eye.  (On camera):  Hey, what`s up Mary, how you doing?  (Voice-over):  Gaining trust is really, really important.  (On camera):  Now y`all got to let me know sizes. So some of them we didn`t have the half sizes, so we got the fun next full size.  (Voice-over):  It takes boots on the ground to get back there, find them and meet their needs.  (On camera):  All right, you`re welcome. We`ll get the shower set up on that side. If you guys need a shower today.  (Voice-over):  I am, to a lot of them their only family. I grew up here in Fayetteville. Fayetteville is home to Fort Liberty, formerly Fort Bragg,   home of the Special Operations Command, 82nd Airborne. I think that having a base right next to your town, the passion for veterans runs really,   really deep.  My stepdad is a staff sergeant, had been military. I saw, you know, things that he struggled with. I saw a gap in services for homeless veterans. And   I just thought, you know, I can do something about that. And then it just kind of went on from there. I wanted to fill that gap in services that. And   that`s why I created offering outreach.  (On camera):  These are for Sam too. The study for short.  (Voice-over):  We provide clothing, food. There`s a full kitchen in the back. We also do laundry.  (On camera):  Your pants are almost done spinning baby.  (Voice-over):  For veterans, we do wraparound services.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I like this establishment visit set up. BUCKNER (on camera):  Because this is my brick and mortar.  (Voice-over):  But obviously our services are offered to anyone at the encampment. It`s just filling a basic human need.  (On camera):  You need a widely --  (Voice-over):  We also like to do pop up events, outreach events, where we will actually bring in our homeless vets, give them new socks, new shoes. (On camera):  Let`s get a brigade line going man.  (Voice-over):  I get vegetables from different veteran owned farms. And we deliver fresh presents to our veterans.  (On camera):  Hey man, thanks for today. Thank you for your service. Those boxes are going to go a long way guys. So thank you. You have my number. My   name is Stacey.  What are you guys in need of? It`s important to show veterans that there are organizations out there that want to be your family, want to help you   get through life`s trials and tribulations and really provide support to you. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is turtley awesome, dude.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It`s a turtle.  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  A gopher tortoise rolled into a gym in Florida to get it swollen. Or maybe it was just looking for some shelter. The gym manager though not   having it. She thought the turtle might try to snap at her so she didn`t want to grab it. Instead, she`s just it with a towel. We sped the video up   but as you can see, she got quite the workout before finally getting the little fella out of there, shell abrasion time.  And now one of my favorite part of the day special shout out to Lava Heights Academy in Tocqueville, Utah, rise up. Did you know Tocqueville is   named for the black lava rock found on the top of a nearby mountain and it`s derived from the language of the Native American Paiute Tribe that   lived in the region before settlers arrived.  So follow me @coywire and submit your unique vocabulary word into the comment section of my most recent posts and we`re going to choose one fun   one to work into tomorrow show, bring it. I`m Cory Wire. And we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-08-23
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Good morning. Good afternoon. Good night, wherever you are in this wonderful world. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we start   by taking a trip to Japan today, where there are plans to release treated, radioactive wastewater into the ocean in the coming days.  You may remember 12 years ago, an undersea earthquake struck off the coast of Japan, triggering a tsunami with 30-foot waves with disastrous   consequences. The quake was so strong. It moved Japan`s main island by eight feet, more than 20,000 people died or went missing. The earthquake   and tsunami also cut power to The Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant, nuclear reactors need water to stay cool and prevent meltdowns. But at the   Fukushima Daiichi Plant, those cooling systems started to fail, reactor course overheated and contaminated water inside the plant with highly   radioactive material. It was Japan`s worst ever nuclear disaster, and it took years for the government to lift evacuation orders near the site.  Japan was also left with tons of radioactive waste water, which it has stored and treated over the past decade. Now, the country says it`s running   out of space for the material and it plans to start releasing treated, diluted wastewater into the Pacific ocean as early as Thursday. There are   third parties involved to monitor the release, including the International Atomic Energy Agency. That`s the United Nation`s nuclear watchdog, so to   speak. But many remain uneasy and fear the contamination has already led some shoppers in parts of Asia to stock up on items like salt and seafood.   Here`s CNN International Correspondent, Anna Coren for more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A toxic blight on Japan`s coastline, rising like a monument to the memory of nuclear disaster and   bottling up its dangerous legacy.  Just over 12 years ago, a 9.0 magnitude earthquake off Japan`s coast triggered a tsunami. Power was cut at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant.   Its cooling systems stopped working and the plant went into meltdown. Water was pumped in to reduce the temperature of the reactor course becoming   radioactive. 1.3 million metric tons has been kept here ever since. It`s been treated to remove and dilute the most dangerous elements. On Thursday,   Japan will begin to release that water into the Pacific Ocean. FUMIO KISHIDA, PRIME MINISTER OF JAPAN (through translator): The offshore discharge of ALPS-treated water is an issue that cannot be postponed in   order to advance the decommissioning of the plant and the reconstruction of Fukushima. COREN: The International Atomic Energy Agency backs Japan`s plan to slowly feed the water into the sea, but not all the dangerous elements can be   removed. A level of the hydrogen isotope called radioactive tritium will remain in the water. Japan and the IAEA says it`s safe in small amounts. RAFAEL GROSSI, INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY: Tritium is present there in a very, very low concentration. And it will be diluted even further to a   point that it will be negligible. COREN: The concentration of tritium released is set to come under the World Health Organization`s regulatory limit, but such assurances have not been   enough to assuage the fears of many in Japan and around the region.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): I don`t believe it at all. It`s very dangerous. It contains very radioactive substances. It would become a   serious problem once it`s released into the ocean. We won`t be able to eat fish anymore. COREN: Protests have been a constant since Japan announced its plan to release the water two years ago. Many worry about the potential for   bioaccumulation of dangerous elements in the ecosystem. While neighboring countries like China have accused Japan of treating the ocean as a dumping   ground. But the disaster of 2011 left Japan with few options. GROSSI: This would not happen in a normal operation of a nuclear reactor. Here you had all this accumulation and then you had to deal with it. You   had to take a decision. COREN: Many difficult decisions will need to be made at Fukushima in the coming decades. Part of the reason to release the stored water is to free   up space to safely decommission the plant. The legacy of the Fukushima Nuclear Disaster will be a lasting one. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia. With current technology, how long would it take for humans to make a roundtrip to Mars?  Six months, one year, two to three years, at least 15 years? According to NASA, a crude mission to Mars and back would take two to three years. If you are going to be floating in space for two to three years,   what one food would you want to eat? Have you ever heard of the deep space food challenge? It`s an international competition put on by NASA and the   Canadian Space Agency to find ways to create healthy tasty foods for astronauts on long missions, like roundtrip to Mars. CNN Space and Science   Writer Ashley Strickland takes us to a culinary lab in San Francisco for more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PHNAM BAGLEY, CO-FOUNDER & CREATIVE DIRECTOR, NONFICTION DESIGN: So, one thing to know about food in space is like your taste buds are not   functioning. The same way as they are when you`re on the surface.  The food that we give astronauts is actually quite pungent --  ASHLEY STRICKLAND, CNN SPACE AND SCIENCE WRITER: Mm-hmm. BAGLEY: -- for them to even feel anything.  STRICKLAND: Right.  BAGLEY: Yeah. So --  STRICKLAND: Good strong flavors, right?  BAGLEY: It`s not going to be subtle. STRICKLAND (voice-over): Keeping astronauts healthy on long missions in space presents many challenges and food is a big one. Phnam Bagley is the   Co-Founder of Nonfiction, a design firm that is one of several finalists in a NASA and Canadian Space Agency Competition called the Deep Space Food   Challenge. BAGLEY: So going to Mars, and you take two and a half, three years roundtrip, and astronauts can only eat so many freeze-dried, rehydrated   food before they go crazy. STRICKLAND: So what are some of these greens that we`re seeing here? BAGLEY: Yes. So this is an aeroponic garden, so you can see some baby bok choy, you can see some like butter greens. STRICKLAND (voice-over): Nonfiction calls this a Culinary Lab. It`s a working mockup of a modular unit that can fit into a spacecraft. It grows   food has a coffee maker and can even grill meat. BAGLEY: As we all know open fires are frowned upon in space.  STRICKLAND: Right, yeah. BAGLEY: So, let`s avoid that, right?  STRICKLAND: Right. BAGLEY: So what we decide to do is to use basically microwave to heat up the meat and then to essentially draw the grill pattern on the protein   using laser. There we go.  STRICKLAND: Oh, wow.  BAGLEY: So this little real mark on top, kind of like depending on how wet the -- the top surface was. But makes this piece of chicken look a lot more   appetizing, right? Space barbecue. STRICKLAND: Space barbecue. (Voice-over): This part of the culinary lab is what Nonfiction calls munch, it`s a bioreactor that grows algae that can be harvested and eaten by the   astronauts. BAGLEY: So what we do is that we extract these little discs of microalgae, and then eventually we get a lot of it.  STRICKLAND: Mm-hmm. BAGLEY: And then this smells terrible and it doesn`t taste great, but it`s very nutritious. So what we do is that to hide the flavor, we actually mix   it with a lot of different types of ingredients here. You are in a Silicon bag and then you mix it up.  STRICKLAND: OK.  BAGLEY: And then it ends up as balls like this. And you can keep these for, you know, two or three days, and they`ll still taste pretty fresh. STRICKLAND: I feel like I`m going to have a special meal. I`m excited. BAGLEY: There you go. Astronaut food. It`s the future. STRICKLAND: Here`s the space food.  BAGLEY: Still better, right?  STRICKLAND: It tastes really good. You got the peanut butter. BAGLEY: Mm-hmm. STRICKLAND: And oats. It`s really nice texture.  BAGLEY: Mm-hmm. STRICKLAND: That`s delicious.  BAGLEY: Great. STRICKLAND: I could absolutely -- I could eat this all the time.  BAGLEY: Mm-hmm. STRICKLAND: That`s really good. (Voice-over): It`s not just that Intrepid space fearing humans need food to stay alive. The preparation taste and appearance of food can have real   psychological benefits for astronauts. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: And for today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a fur baby that created quite the brouhaha. Meet Chicken Cutlet also known as Chickie. This golden   retriever, nearly nixed her owners nuptials a dream wedding in Italy when she chewed up a passport just before the trip. Fortunately, the groom to be   was able to get a last-minute appointment at a passport office with help from a Senator and a Congressman who heard about the couples predicament. Winner of #yourwordwednesday is Mr. Jose Antonio from Spain for submitting brouhaha, a noun, meaning a loud, chaotic reaction to something. Well done.  Now to our favorite part of the day, you. Today`s special shoutout goes to Bullitt Central High School in Shepherdsville, Kentucky. Go Cougars. Thanks   for subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube page with your shout out request. And hey, put your teacher`s names in there too. Don`t forget   to smile everyone. I`ll see you next time. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-08-24
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey everyone, it`s your boy Coy. Happy Thursday or as I like to say, happy Friday eve. We have a jam-packed show in only   nine minutes and 52 more seconds to do it. So let`s get to it.  We start today`s show with a touchdown. India touching down on the moon on Wednesday with its crewless spacecraft, Chandrayaan-3. India`s now just the   fourth country to ever do it. It`s a phenomenal feat that only the United States China and the former Soviet Union have pulled off as well.  Russia attempted this exact mission just this past weekend, but their craft crashed into the surface of the moon. This successful mission could cement   India as one of our planet`s superpowers in space. India`s craft made a soft landing closer to the moon`s south pole than any other spacecraft in   history and scientists believe the moon south pole holds water deposits in the form of ice that could be converted into drinking water for astronauts,   or maybe even rocket fuel. So there`s a possibility that the moon south pole could become a place where future crude missions could stock up and   travel farther into space.  The 2024 presidential election season is here. U.S. candidates run for president every four years. So Americans will head to the polls to cast   their vote for president in November of 2024. But a lot has to happen before that like introducing Americans to the candidates and giving those   candidates a chance to make the case for why they should have the job.  One of the most important tasks before Americans cast a vote for president is to determine who the candidates will be. That`s determined through the   primary elections. In most cases, the incumbent president, if they haven`t already reached the two-year limit, they will represent their political   party again. So in this case, current U.S. President Joe Biden will likely represent the Democratic Party come election time. He announced his bid for   reelection back in April. With president Biden, as the presumptive nominee on the democratic side, much of the attention this go around will be on who   will become the Republican challenger.  Beginning in January candidates from the Republican party will compete against each other in a primary election to determine who will hold the   nomination. But every state conducts their own primary election and they don`t all do it the same. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: America politics is dominated by two parties, Republicans, and Democrats. That means only two people have any real chance   in the presidential election every four years. If you want to help decide who those two candidates are, the primaries are your best chance. It used to be that presidential candidates were selected at party conventions. It was mostly party members who selected delegates, who went   on a convention to vote. Conventions still happen, but they`re mostly ceremonial since primaries have determined every candidate for more than 50   years. Here`s where it gets confusing, every state conducts their own primaries and none of them do it exactly the same. They`re spread over the   course of months in a presidential election here, which is why candidates set up camp in early voting states like Iowa and New Hampshire, South   Carolina and Nevada. If a candidate banks on Iowa and doesn`t win there, they might have to drop out. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Democrat Martin O`Malley suspending his campaign tonight. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  A surprising finish in New Hampshire can make a candidate blow up on the other hand and give them new momentum. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Tonight, we sure show them what a comeback looks like. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Some states like Iowa have caucuses, which are more like neighborhood meetings than a traditional primary. People show up and   actually lobby for their candidates. Some states have opened primaries, meaning anyone can take part in the primary, even if they aren`t registered   party members. Other states have closed primaries, meaning you have to join the party in order to vote. And some states like California are   experimenting with completely nonpartisan primaries. Although not at the presidential level. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  In a way, the 2024 U.S. presidential election season kicked off last night when the first Republican primary debate was held in Milwaukee,   Wisconsin. This was the first major stage for these hopefuls to speak about their ideas and policies and a chance for them to make the case as to why   they should become the next president.  There were eight candidates that qualified and attended last night`s a debate, Florida Governor Ron DeSantis, South Carolina Senator Tim Scott,   former South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley, Entrepreneur Vivek Ramaswamy, former Vice President Mike Pence, former New Jersey Governor Chris   Christie, North Dakota Governor Doug Burgum and former Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson. Former president Donald Trump did not attend. And instead   released a pre-recorded interview.  You can head to cnn.com for highlights from the debate and to learn more about the candidates.  Ten second trivia. When great white sharks are born, they are known as what? Calves, Pups, Hatchlings, or Whelps? Raise your hand if you said pups. Did you know that from the moment they`re born, great white pups are all on their own. This summer swimmers at   beaches across America are on the lookout for sharks. With more sharks found along the warmer shores on long island, New York State Park Police,   they`re deploying an army of drones to monitor them and to help prevent attacks. Police gave CNN`s Clare Duffy, a hands-on demonstration at Jones   beach in Long Island to see how these drones can help keep swimmers safe. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CPT. RISHI BASDEO, NEW YORK STATE PARK POLICE:  I can`t predict to say whether or not there`s going to be more bites of shark attacks, but what I   could tell you is that because of the use of drones, the more drones that are flying in the air, there`s the more of a chance of seeing these animals   in their natural habitat. CLARE DUFFY, CNN BUSINESS WRITER (voice-over):  This summer shark attacks here on long island have prompted a heightened sense of urgency to keep   sharks and swimmers distant from one another. Now to New York where this drone footage shows about 50 sharks swimming near the beach of a state park in Long Island That`s where drones like the   one that spotted 50 sharks at one beach come in. BASDEO:  It has really evolved from search and rescue to now looking for dangerous Marine wildlife. DUFFY:  Here at Jones beach, New York State park police gave CNN a demonstration of how its drone program is helping to spot sharks before   potential attacks. BASDEO:  Now you`re getting with the drawing a real Supreme aerial view of what`s going on in real time on the waterway. DUFFY:  The Park Police operates a fleet of 19 drones used by officers here in the mobile command center, as well as lifeguards. BASDEO:  This mobile command center that you see behind us can live stream the videos that the drone is looking at in real time and bringing it back   to some of our police officers. So they can communicate directly with the lifeguards and warn people into water early so they can move out of the   water of the way of the sharks. DUFFY:  While shark attacks remain relatively rare, sharks are becoming more common on Long Island as warmer waters in recent years attract more   fish and with more fish come more predators.  (On camera): So this is the kind of drone that the lifeguards are using? BASDEO:  This is exactly what the lifeguards are using.  DUFFY:  And this is the one that you said is around 6,000? BASDEO:  Correct, ma`am. So this bundle case right here is about $6,000.  This is the New York State Park Police. DUFFY:  Monitoring for sharks isn`t the only thing these drones can do. The drone pilots can also equip them with speakers to communicate with swimmers   who might be lost or disoriented. They can even deploy life saving devices to swimmers before lifeguards could get to them. BASDEO:  Let`s put the cost value here. It`s actually cheaper than calling in a police helicopter, but I`m talking about a quick deployment, setting   something up really quick to get a fast situational awareness of an incident that is on unfolding is invaluable. DUFFY:  I`m curious what the public reaction to this has been. I imagine seeing drones flying above you with sort of something to get used to,   people might be hesitant about having cameras. What`s the reaction been like? BASDEO:  For the most part, ma`am, it`s positive. But also I understand the concern. We`re on a strict guidelines when we operate and fly these drones,   it is not used to surveil the public. It is used to keep them safe. It is used for that search and rescue component. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, I guess you could say she`s the cleanest giraffe on the planet because she is spotless. This rare baby   giraffe was born without spots at a Tennessee zoo. And the zoo says that giraffe experts believe she`s the only solid colored reticulated giraffe   anywhere in the world. Born July 31st, she was already six feet tall, but she`ll grow up to 16 to 18 feet. At that point, her neck alone will be six   feet long, but interestingly we`ll only have seven vertebrae just like us humans.  You can help name this lovely little long neck, the bright zoo Facebook pages, letting people vote on four potential names until September 4th. If   I could choose any name, it would be Plain Jane. My mom`s name is Jane. Hi mom.  Time for our random thought Thursday. What word in the English language actually becomes shorter when you add two letters to it? Hmm, any guesses?   If you know it, shout it out. Answer is short. It becomes shorter when you add two letters.  Today`s special shoutout goes to Willis Junior High School in Chandler, Arizona, rise up. Chase those dreams lovely people. Hold on tight, never   let go. I believe in you. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-08-25
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up lovely people. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, and it`s finally Friday, Friyay. Almost time to unwind, to relax   the mind as we creep into the weekend. But before we get there, let`s keep seeking to finish this week strong.  It is hot out there, right? For a huge portion of the country right now. And chances are, you might be trying to keep it cool. Excessive heat   warnings the most severe form of heat alert currently span 1100 miles and are impacting more than 20 states. Temperatures in some places are 20   degrees higher than normal this time of year. This week more than 65 million people will have experienced a temperature above 100 degrees   Fahrenheit. And the heat is causing significant challenges.  Listen to this, tragically, nearly two dozen cattle died from excessive heat in Nebraska, and more than 100 residents from a nursing home in Kansas   City had to be evacuated due to temperatures reaching 119 degrees. And one other thing to let you know, just how hot it`s been in ice cream shop in   Iowa had to shut down because the building couldn`t stay cool enough to keep the ice cream frozen. The heat wave is especially remarkable for this   already record-breaking summer. The scientific cause is called a heat dome, which is a strong area of high pressure that traps and intensifies hot air   at the surface. And the heat is predicted to persist. So we may see even more heat records across central and Southern parts of the country.  The record high temperatures are even impacting students in classrooms. In Denver, Colorado, 16 elementary schools, and a middle school ended classes   early due to the soaring temperatures. Milwaukee public schools were closed entirely. In other districts, outdoor activities have been postponed. And   even in classrooms where air conditioning is working. Well, the schools have had to make accommodations to avoid subjecting students to sweltering   bus rides to get there. Our meteorologist Ms. Allison Chinchar is here to break it all down for us. Ally, it is smoke and hot out there? ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  That`s right, Coy. It has been a brutally hot week and it`s all thanks to a heat dome. Now, essentially what   we`ve had set up this week is a high-pressure system essentially parked over the central U.S. Now, normally we all know heat rises, but under high   pressure, that`s actually pushing that air back down towards the surface, essentially acting like a giant lid, trapping that heat, keeping all of it   back closer to the surface. And what that does is it allows a lot of this same area under that high pressure to just be dealing with incredibly hot   temperatures. And in some cases prolonged periods of time because that high pressure system simply doesn`t move.  Now over this week, we`ve had over 400 locations break, record temperatures. Again, all the way from Texas up into Minnesota and back over   towards the Atlantic side of states like Georgia and Florida. Now, we are still going to continue to see those heat records continue. A lot of   excessive heat warnings and heat advisories still in effect for the day Friday. But I have some good news and that is cooler temperatures are on   the way, especially across the Midwest, the Mid-Atlantic and the Northeast once we get into the latter half of the weekend and into next week. WIRE:  Ten second trivia. R.U.R. was a play published in 1920, introducing the concept of what? Robots, Records, Radio or Radon? If you said robots, put your hands up. Rossum`s Universal Robots was a check play about machines taking over.  The next time you have to do chores like taking out the trash or doing the dishes. What if you could have a robot do it for you? It sounds like   science fiction. It sounds like the future, but the future is apparently near. The team at Austin-based robotics startup, Apptronik believes their   human like droid helpers will soon become the norm. We caught up with them to find out what all they are capable of and the potential downsides. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ASHLEY STRICKLAND, CNN SPACE & SCIENCE REPORTER:  What is Apollo, exactly? JEFF CARDENAS, CEO & CO-FOUNDER, APPTRONIK:  Apollo is our latest humanoid robot. Sometimes you`ll hear us called a general-purpose robot. This is   something that is going to be your friend. You`re going to rely on these things to do all the things you don`t want to do. STRICKLAND:  So what are some of its capabilities? DR. NICK PAINE, CTO & CO-FOUNDER, APPTRONIK:  We`ve designed Apollo with roughly human morphology, human range of motion, the same height, the same   weight as a human. CARDENAS:  We need to make robots much more versatile than what they are today. The reason that it`s humanoid is because we`ve built the world for   humans. We have a big labor shortage here in the U.S. So where Apollo`s going to start is in warehouses. Like you kind of see here, it can lift   about 55 pounds. It operates on about a four-hour battery and you can change the battery out so you can keep it running 22 hours a day is what   we`re targeting. STRICKLAND:  What would you say to people who are watching this? They see Apollo and they`re worried. Apollo could take my job? CARDENAS:  If we compare humans with robots, then the robots can take the portion of the work that drives people out of those industries. So instead   of you unloading trucks in the hot Texas sun, you`re managing a fleet of robots that`s unloading the trucks for you. And you`re learning new skills   that become applicable across a range of different industries, but where we hope it to ultimately go is one day versions of Apollo could be in your   home or eventually on the Moon or Mars. STRICKLAND (voice-over):  To help with those cosmic aspirations, Apptronik has teamed up with NASA. SHAUN AZIMI, DEXTEROUS ROBOTICS TEAM LEADER, NASA JSC:  My hope and my dream is that we will have general purpose robots fielded in space within   the next 10 years. STRICKLAND:  But the biggest obstacle right now combining and refining mobility and dexterity, the co-founders of Apptronik are no strangers to   that. Having worked on NASA`s Valkyrie robot a decade ago. AZIMI:  Valkyrie capable of extra manipulation and -- and walking, carrying items, opening doors, but there are limitations. For example, being able to   move very quickly and precisely. We really need systems that have more than one skill that are flexible and adaptable.  STRICKLAND:  Apptronik isn`t alone in the rush to build a humanoid robot. Tesla has a humanoid bot of its own. And Hyundai-owned Boston Dynamics has   Atlas. But Atlas relies on hydraulics for its movement. CARDENAS:  Hydraulics are very powerful, but it`s not safe to be around. So our bet at Apptronik was that electric humanoids were going to be the   future. So the first phase for us was to focus on performance of electric motors or actuators, and try to get them up to par with what you see with a   lot of hydraulic systems. STRICKLAND (voice-over):  And they`re aiming for this everyday robot to have an everyday price.  (On camera):  What would you say is the price point for Apollo? CARDENAS:  The goal is for it to be less than the price of your standard car. These have to be affordable. They have to be accessible. STRICKLAND:  What would you envision a future Apollo being capable of doing? PAINE:  The next step is to build a more hardened version of this that is really kind of designed for scale manufacturing. CARDENAS:  I think 20 years from now much like the computer, we`re going to look back and think, how do we ever get by without the help of these   machines? (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is creating quite the hoopla. A top basketball shooting coach named Chris Matthews traveled to Japan to   take on a Japanese robot in a hoop shooting contest. Let`s call it "Labot James." Get this the robot beat Matthews in the first challenge. Then they   put a smaller hoop inside the rim to up the stakes. This time Matthews beat Labot.  Toyota engineers built this Yana`s robot that can hoop a lot in 2017 and it`s already broken Guinness world record for consecutive free throws by a   humanoid robot, more than 2000 in a row.  Happy Friday, everyone. Keep in touch over the weekend. I`m @coywire on Insta, Snapchat and TikTok where CNN 10 on YouTube subscribe and comment   with your special shout out request.  Today`s shout out, goes to Vista Middle School in Ferndale, Washington. Remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN   10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2023-08-28
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, sunshine. It is time to rise up and fuel our minds. Great to be back after what was hopefully an awesome weekend.   What was your favorite part? Message me @Coywire. Mine was meeting so many of you who came up to say hello, like Ellie, Lilly and Maddie representing   Beacon Hill Middle School in Decatur, Georgia, rise up. Since Monday is mostly just a state of mind. Let`s get our minds right and start this week off strong, shall we. Let`s brush up on some history to   start, 60 years ago today more than 250,000 people congregated at the Lincoln Memorial for the March on Washington for jobs and freedom. That`s   where civil rights leader, Martin Luther king Jr. gave his famous, "I have a Dream" speech, this speech and the movement from the 1960s pushed to   advocate for equal civil and economic rights for African Americans.  It also called to end segregation, ensure fair wages and economic justice advocate for equal voting rights and education, among other things. It`s   one of the most famous days in history and historically credited with putting pressure on then President John F. Kennedy and his administration   to initiate a federal civil rights bill in Congress. On Sunday, tens of thousands of people assembled at the same location to spread the message that the fight against racial inequality is not yet   over. The event was a Testament to the enduring influence of the original March on Washington. And that MLK`s legacy of pushing for civil rights is   still relevant today.  Up next, CNN National Correspondent, Jason Carroll met with two men who were at the March on Washington 60 years ago today. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What do we want now? JASON CARROLL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It was a call for economic and racial equality, a call to action that brought more than   200,000 people to the National Mall in Washington, D.C., on August 28th, 60 years ago. A day best remembered for Martin Luther King Jr.`s historic "I   Have a Dream" speech. MARTIN LUTHER KING JR., CIVIL RIGHTS LEADER: Now is the time to make real, the promises of democracy. CARROLL: Among the hundreds of thousands, two young activists who were filled with hope.  COURTLAND COX, CHAIRMAN, SNCC LEGACY PROJECT: I was all the way in the top.  CARROLL (On camera): All the way in the top, over to the left.  COX: Yeah, over to the left.  CARROLL (voice-over): Courtland Cox is now 82, but 60 years ago, he was a 22-year -old working for the Civil Rights Organization`s SNCC, The Student   Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. COX: And what I remember is the platform is there in the mid-center.  CARROLL: Edward Flanagan was there too.  (On camera): Where were you?  EDWARD FLANAGAN, ATTENDED MARCH ON WASHINGTON IN 1963: I was sitting on the wall up top there by the entertainers.  CARROLL (voice-over): Flanagan is 80 now, but on the day of the march, he was a 20-year-old who had just finished his shift as a waiter. Like scores   of others, he wanted to take a stand for civil rights.  FLANAGAN: I was very close to Joan Baez. OK, I was able to notice she was barefoot. And I had on a new pair of shoes.  CARROLL (on camera): She was barefoot? FLANAGAN: She was barefoot.  (MUSIC) CARROLL (voice-over): A march six decades ago now seen through the eyes of two different men who shared the same goal many did that day.  FLANAGAN: It was, in fact, a march for jobs and freedom.  COX: Our thought to today is that we succeeded in changing this country.  CARROLL: As a young organizer, Cox was responsible for arranging safe transportation for people making the trek from the south to Washington,   D.C. He says there were challenges from top to bottom. Much had to be done in very little time.  (On camera): The challenge from the bottom was the logistics of getting people here. Over an eight-week period, I`m trying to get trailways buses.   I`m trying to get greyhound buses. And the drivers are saying, look, it`s dangerous bringing people to the south.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I`ve been here before. You`re never been here before.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I`ve never been here before.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Well, that`s very --  CARROLL (voice-over): This week, Flanagan brought his daughters back to the place history was made.  FLANAGAN: That`s the fact where the entertainers were.  CARROLL: Cox prefers to stay away this time, saying his marching days are behind him. Both agree while much was accomplished that day, the work is   not over.  FLANAGAN: We are still, well, in a much better place than we were in `63, not in the place where one would expect 60 years on.  COX: We succeeded in doing a number of things by what we did in the past, but we also know that we have to do much more for the future.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. In what country would you find? The engineering Marvel nickname, the world`s greatest shortcut? China, Brazil, Panama, or South Africa? If you said Panama, put your hands up. The Panama canal saves about 8,000 nautical miles. When ships travel between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans   to the east and west coast of the U.S.  Panama, a country in central America is having one of their driest seasons on record and vessels. Traveling through the Panama canal are in a bit of a   conundrum. The Panama canal is a 50-mile waterway that was completed in 1914 to connect the Atlantic and Pacific oceans and to decrease travel   times for ships. It`s very important for maritime trade and allows ships to avoid traveling all the way around south America.  But now use of the canal is in jeopardy because of lower water levels. That`s being caused by a lack of rainfall this year, which is impacting the   fresh water lakes nearby upon which the canal relies. The system uses at least 50 million gallons of water for each vessel that floats through. In response canal, authorities have imposed restrictions on things like daily traffic and how much each vessel can weigh. Just this week, they   extended the restrictions for another 10 months while the direct impact to U.S., consumers, retailers and manufacturers seems to be minimal right now.   The potential for more disruptions are growing. We`ll continue to follow this story for you right here on CNN 10.  This summer beach goers have found hundreds of sea lion and dolphins washed up across the shores of Southern California. Some of the animals sick, some   dying. And Marine life experts believe a harmful algae bloom is to blame. The algae is called pseudo-nitzschia and it produces a neurotoxin which can   be poisonous to sea birds and fish, and can then travel all the way up to food chain, making larger animals like dolphins, sea lions, and even humans   sick. CNN Correspondent, Stephanie Elam visited a marine animal care center to learn how they`ve been rescuing and caring for a sea lion with the goal   of getting them back to the ocean. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A joyous moment months in the making, as two six sea lion now fully recovered, burst onto a Southern   California beach slide into the sea and swim off to freedom. The journey back into open water for these two was long and uncertain, which made   preparing for the release all the more rewarding.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Everybody ready? ELAM: The sea lions were driven to nearby Cabrillo beach for their final release. Thanks to the heroic efforts of animal rescuers at the Marine   Mammal Care Center. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I`m sorry, sweetheart. ELAM: Who have been treating more than 120 sea lions for domoic acid poisoning in recent months, some sea lines didn`t survive despite being   treated, poisoned by an extended toxic algal bloom along the Southern California coast, that spread from Santa Barbara to San Diego. JOHN WARNER, CEO, MARINE MAMMAL CARE CENTER: It was the worst for many reasons, the size, the scale, the scope of it, but also the toxicity of the   algae. ELAM: CNN was there, the day rescuers found one of the two sea lion released this week. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She is having a small seizure. What we`ll do is just be very gentle with her.  ELAM: She`s now known as Sophie. Sophie gained 35 pounds while in the center`s care. And that adds up to a lot of fish. The extreme crisis   stretched the center`s ability to care for so many six sea lion. Algal blooms occur in nature, but this year, the high levels of toxins led to   record poisoning. This one, growing stronger alongside his mother every day is now able to participate in puppy playtime, socializing with other baby   sea lions until the pups and their mothers are able to be released as well and join the first two ready, willing, and finally able to return to the   sea. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is really measuring up to be a good one. We`re talking, measuring all sorts of critters like penguins   and parrots, all being weighed and measured by these zookeepers at a London Zoo. Imagine having that job where you have to figure out how am I going to   get this critter to stay on the scale.  Now every year, the zoo measures and weighs thousands of animals like this cute little monkey and holy moly, even spiders. Keep that thing away from   me. They`re going to record these important statistics that can also help to measure their health and wellbeing.  All right, I have a Monday motivation challenge for you. Try saying the alphabet backwards as fast as you can. Z, Y, X, W, V, U, T, S, R, Q, P, O,   N, M, L, K, J, I, H, G, F, E, D, C, B, A, like that.  All right, today`s special shout out this magnificent Monday goes to Summit Virtual Academy in Salisbury, North Carolina, shine bright y`all. I`m Coy   Wire. We are CNN 10 and we`ll see you tomorrow. END 

Date: 2023-08-29
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello sunshine. Ahead of today`s CNN 10, I`m at CNN Center covering a few sports stories like this past weekend, Simone   Biles, the most decorated gymnast of all time doing it again, winning a record eighth all around national championship in just her second   competition back after two years off.  The high-flying star took time away from the sport after the Tokyo Olympics to focus in part on her mental health. She got married too, but she`s back.  Up next for the goal, the world championships in Belgium. Up next for us today`s episode of CNN 10.  Hello friends, hope you`re having a wonderful day. Let`s start by making this terrific teacher Tuesday. Shout out to all the teachers uplifting,   informing and inspiring us. Dap up your teacher today. Give a handshake or high five. Let them know we see you.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. The best 10 minutes in news.  We start today with tropical storm Idalia. It has been picking up energy, making its way towards the western coast of Florida. It`s forecast to be   strengthened into a major Category 3 hurricane before making landfall this week, possibly Wednesday morning, putting millions of people in harm`s way.   At the time of this recording, life threatening storm surges and dangerous winds were forecast for Florida`s Gulf Coast as early as Tuesday.  The National Hurricane Center had issued hurricane watches for the coast from Sarasota County in the south all the way northwest to Franklin County.   Florida Governor Ron DeSantis declared a state of emergency for dozens of counties hoping to give communities the resources they need to endure the   storm.  And state officials had urged residents to prepare for Idalia as hurricane, tropical storm and storm surge watches and warnings were issued for cities   along the coast. A hurricane warning was also in effect for parts of Cuba and a tropical storm warning was in effect for the Yucatan Peninsula.  A watch doesn`t mean those conditions will definitely happen, only that they`re possible. A hurricane, tropical storm or storm surge warning,   however, is much more serious because it means that those conditions are imminent. With storms like this, things can change in a moment`s notice,   though. That`s why the National Hurricane Center issues updates every six hours, always giving updates at 5 a.m., 11 a.m., 5 p.m. and 11 p.m. Eastern   time.  Screen time, it`s been a debate over phones and tablets for many years. How much time on an illuminated screen is too much? One study published last week by a pediatric group in Japan suggests a negative link between early childhood use and higher risk for developmental   delays. But that`s just one of many projects around the world aimed at understanding the pros and cons of a screen-obsessed population.  In China, screen time limits could become law. A new government initiative could legally restrict children`s time spent on smartphones and tablets to   between 40 minutes and two hours depending on age. Some parents are happy about it and say that it`ll ease tensions at home, but certain experts feel   it`s too much government overreach and could set China back economically and culturally.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  China`s answer, minor mode, a proposed law to order tech giants to limit children`s screen time and shut off apps. For one   tired parent, the proposed rules would be a relief.  CRYSTAL GUO, MOTHER IN GUANGZHOU:  This would be wonderful if it were true. There would be less anger between us.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Under the new mode, children under 18 will get a maximum of two hours on smartphones per day and will be locked out   overnight. But Beijing`s top-down approach has its critics.  ANDREW COLLIER, ORIENT CAPITAL RESEARCH:  The broader worry I have is that China under the current leadership is imposing a very strict cultural   moralism on their citizens, which is not going to be necessarily helpful for their personal growth or for the future of the Chinese economy.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  As part of China`s broader digital crackdown, minors are already banned from gaming on weekdays. Social media apps have time   limits and some parents ship their children off to boot camps to kick internet addiction.  Children are also finding ways around Beijing`s rules. This 10-year-old explains.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  Some kids use their parents` ID to log in. They never put their phones down. They`ll look at it until the   battery runs out.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The new guidelines order internet providers to highlight socialist and patriotic content and promote family values.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator):  It takes away from your time to play, exercise and read. It takes away from your time to do more   interesting things.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  But her son says parents need to lead by example. It`s not easy to control myself, but adults can`t either. A battle over screen   time that`s far from over.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten Second Trivia.  In the U.S. what is the current federal minimum wage per hour? $5.50, $7.25, $10 or $15? Though 30 states have a higher minimum wage, the current federal minimum is $7.25.  There is also something called a tipped minimum wage, meaning if a portion of your pay comes from tips, from customers, your employer can pay you less   than minimum wage. The current federal tipped minimum wage is $2.13 per hour. So servers and other tipped workers can be paid $2.13 per hour by   their employers with the understanding that they`ll likely earn enough money through tips to get them to at least the state`s minimum wage.  But there is a movement by some U.S. states to get rid of the tipped minimum wage and eight states have abolished it. One fair wage is a group   pushing for businesses to be required to raise the pay of these employees to the state`s minimum wage, plus tips. But some business owners worry this   could end up hurting their bottom line, ultimately driving up prices for customers. Some employees worry that the new initiative could actually   decrease their overall take-home pay. CNN`s Business and Politics Correspondent Vanessa Yurkevich is looking at the changing landscape of   tipping.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS & POLITICS CORRESPONDENT:  This screen is stressful for many.  (On camera):  Does the flip of the screen feel like a lot of pressure?  CARLY CULLEN, NEW YORKER:  It does, and they give you options like 10, 15, 20, even with like Uber, Dash, and like Grubhub, all of it. Like   everything`s tip, tip, tip.  YURKEVICH:  Do you think that tipping has gotten out of control?  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Yes.  YURKEVICH:  Tips are part of American culture, meant to be a thank you for good service. But today, more and more Americans are confronted with the   question, would you like to add a tip?  CULLEN:  It is tricky everywhere, right? Like if you`re at a coffee shop, if you`re at a hair stylist, if you`re coming out of a taxi, like I don`t   know the rules then and I often don`t know what to tip.  YURKEVICH:  A recent study found that in a high number of cases, participants who were presented with a tip screen had more negative   emotions to the payment experience than those that didn`t. And it wasn`t even a real-world scenario.  DYLAN BOSCH, NEW YORKER:  Listen, you go to a coffee shop and all they do just twist around the laptop is like, why am I tipping?  YURKEVICH:  But the small group we spoke to said more often than not, they do end up tipping.  JOSEPH GUZMEN, NEW YORKER:  I put a dollar or two, I don`t mind. As long as like, you know, it`s not a lot, I just put it, because I don`t mind. I   don`t think I`m helping out, you know, other people.  YURKEVICH:  This is provisions on state, a butcher shop. There`s no table service, no cooking or serving. Yet, they`ll ask you if you`d like to tip.  (On camera):  A flip screen in a butcher shop?  EMILY MINGRONE, CONNECTICUT RESTAURANT OWNER:  Yes.  YURKEVICH:  I don`t think I`ve ever seen that before.  MINGRONE:  Yes.  YURKEVICH:  How`d you decide to do that?  MINGRONE:  These men and women have a knowledge base that they`re sharing and taking care to share with the guests that come through the door. And   they`re not pressured to tip, but they want to because they`re paying for a service provided.  YURKEVICH:  This movement to get rid of the tip minimum wage, are you for it, against it?  MINGRONE:  I`m against it, and I think frankly it`s kind of clueless.  YURKEVICH:  Eight states have abolished the tip minimum wage, which in some is as low as $2.13 an hour. The National Restaurant Association is fighting   against it, calling it a top issue.  MINGRONE:  That`s money that`s going to come out of my pocket, take away from the people that aren`t getting tipped. I would need to raise my   prices, which then causes pushback from the guests.  YURKEVICH:  But the group One Fair Wage is moving legislation and ballot measures to end the tip minimum wage in 25 other states, including   Illinois.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, is today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a good one? You butter believe it. Each year at the Minnesota State Fair, 900 pounds of   butter carved into 10 sculptures representing the 10 finalists in the Princess Kay of the Milky Way contest.  Butter sculpting at the state fair began in 1898 as a way to highlight Minnesota`s claim as the butter capital of the nation. Battling the   slightest margarine of air and the 40-degree temps in the refrigerator so the masterpieces don`t melt, these modern-day milk- Mikelangelo`s sculpt   away as it turns out, Emma Kubal was crowned this year`s winner, but all the finalists get to keep their sculptures. Doesn`t get any butter than   that.  We`re looking for #YourWordWednesday submissions, your vocabulary word in tomorrow`s show. Follow me @Coywire and put your word and definition in the   comment section of the most recent posts, and we`ll choose a winner to work into tomorrow`s show along with a shout out to you and your school.  Our shout out today is going to the Sipp, Center High School in Olive Branch, Mississippi, rise up. Keep shining bright, lovely people. I`m Coy   Wire. And we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-08-30
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, what`s up sunshine. It`s your boy Coy, wishing you a wonderful Wednesday full of wonder. Halfway through the week.   So let`s lock in and aim to be just a little better today than we were yesterday.  It`s time now for the best 10 minutes in news. We start today by traveling to the isolated nation of North Korea. The country announced this week that   they`re reopening their borders to some for the first time since the COVID era shutdowns. They are considered one of the last countries on the planet   to do so. The Democratic People`s Republic of Korea is considered one of the most secretive countries in the world.  During the pandemic, the government imposed extreme measures to close its borders and tightly restrict travel even within the country. They also   restricted the distribution of food and other products. According to the organization Human Rights Watch, COVID-19 further isolated the country as   the government maintain tight control over its people. The news that North Korea will ease these border controls comes months after most other Asian   countries relaxed the last of their COVID era restrictions. This includes China, which was known for its zero COVID policy, and unlike other   countries, North Korea will still require its citizens to do a one-week quarantine.  On Tuesday, a flight from North Korea landed in China the first time since 2020. And flights between North Korea and Russia are also set to resume.   CNN International Correspondent Paula Hancocks has more on what the reopening in North Korea might look like. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): North Korea`s athletes are back on the global stage. Its taekwondo team headlined at the opening   ceremony of the World Championships in Kazakhstan last week, believed to be the first overseas sporting engagement since its borders reopened.  This week, Pyongyang confirmed its borders are reopening to allow citizens stranded outside the country for more than three and a half years to   return. It is considered one of the last countries to reopen its borders, and even then, they`re only opening a crack with some international flights   resuming with China and Russia. Tourism, though, is still a dream. Koryo Tours which specializes in taking Westerners into North Korea, since   they`ve heard nothing beyond plans to repatriate its own citizens. SIMON COCKEREL, GM KORYO TOURS: All kinds of people essentially marooned outside of their country, with in most cases no way to contact family for   three and a half years. HANCOCKS: Bart Van Genugten went on a tour of North Korea with his father one year before the borders closed. He created YouTube videos of his   experience.  BART VAN GENUGTEN, YOUTUBER: You go and everyone hopes maybe that they will see a bit more of the real North Korea which won`t happen. Like they show   you the place that they`re going to show you and it`s the best of the best. HANCOCKS: He does see value in North Korean seeing foreigners in their country but acknowledges useful interactions with the people are rare.   Western tour operators already a niche market are likely to be among the last to be invited value.  (On camera): One other group waiting to be allowed back in diplomats. The vast majority of them left during the pandemic unable to send supplies in   or rotate staff out. And so far only Russian and Chinese officials have been invited back to Pyongyang since the restrictions eased showing Kim   Jong-un`s political priorities. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Up next an update on Hurricane Idalia which has been making its way through the Gulf of Mexico toward Florida. At the time, we recorded our   show Hurricane Idalia was expected to intensify before hitting Florida`s Gulf Coast. The storm is predicted to hit the coast of Florida early   Wednesday at Category 3 strength and will come with powerful winds and life-threatening storm surge. Idalia`s storm track is especially interesting because it`s the first major hurricane in at least 172 years to head toward Apalachee Bay in the Big   Bend region of Florida. It`s a marshy coastal area, and though it`s not densely populated, it is home to all sorts of wildlife and nature areas.  Another concerning aspect of this storm is that over the summer water temperatures around Southern Florida climbed to 100 degrees and   temperatures in the Gulf of Mexico overall have hit record temperatures. Warm waters tend to act almost like fuel for hurricanes and Idalia could   strengthen as it approaches.  Preparations for the storm have been underway. People in at least 22 counties along the Gulf Coast were told to evacuate their homes, air and   train travel have halted across the state. In 42 districts, schools have closed. And the governor of Florida Ron DeSantis, had declared a state of   emergency in 67 counties when we recorded our show. The National Guard was also activated to assist with storm response. We`ll keep you updated over the next few days. Our Meteorologist Jennifer Gray   has more on what you need to know about hurricanes. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JENNIFER GRAY, CNN METEOROLOGIST: You have tropical depressions, tropical storms, and once it is strong enough to become a hurricane, you have five   categories of category five being the strongest.  The state`s most frequently hit by a hurricane Florida, Louisiana and Texas. But as much as we know about hurricanes forecasting them is still a   challenge. Just as we name each storm, each storm has its own personality, like Katrina in 2005, which intensified rapidly overnight going from a   Category 3 to a Category 5, it became the fourth most intense hurricane on record as of that time. And the forecast track can change dramatically,   like Erika and 2015, or a system that can be viewed as relatively weak like a tropical storm could end up like Tropical Storm Allison in 2001. The   remnants of the storm stalled over Southeast Texas dumping 35 inches of rain over Houston in just five days. The storm became the first non-  hurricane to have its name retired. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  10 Second trivia. What is the popular term for the second full moon in a calendar month?  Red moon, Blood moon, Blue moon or Harvest moon? WIRE:  Blue Moon crew put your hands up, the phrase once in a blue moon can refer to the second full moon in a month.  If you look to the sky tonight, there`s a chance you might see that once in a blue moon opportunity, but tonight will be an even rarer treat. It`ll be   a super blue moon, a rare combination of a super moon and a blue moon. These are complicated terms, so let`s take tend to break it all down. Super   moons happen when the moon is full and located at or near its closest point to Earth. They happen three to four times a year. And a blue moon the   second full moon in a month happens every two to three years. According to NASA, this combination, a super blue moon is very rare.  The next one won`t happen until the year 2037. But don`t fulminate against me if the moon isn`t actually blue tonight. Despite what the name might   suggest a super blue moon isn`t actually super blue. It is super bright though compared to normal full moons, super blue moons appear 16% brighter   and 14% bigger. And that`s because they`re slightly closer to Earth.  Thanks to the UIL team at Alvarado High School in Texas. You submitted the winner for #YourWordWednesday. Fulminate, a verb meaning to express intense   protest. Well done. Something very different was found in the ocean in Wildwood, New Jersey. Frank Bolger was spending time at the beach with his wife and granddaughter   when he spotted a message in a bottle. He took it home, opened it to find a note saying the bottle had traveled all the way from Ireland. The note was   written back in 2019. So it took four years to travel across the Atlantic Ocean, but it was signed with just one first name. Now Frank Bolger is on a   mission to connect with the writer and his story is making its way all over the world through the power of social media.  Today, we want to give a special shout out to Ojeda Middle School in Austin, Texas, rise up. Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our   YouTube channel with your shout out request.  By the way, who`s up for a challenge. Our CNN 10 YouTube channel was closing in on 750,000 subscribers. My producer said if we make it to   800,000 I can start shouting out to schools at the end of every episode, doubling your chances of getting one. If we hit 900,000 we`re going to do   three. And if we get to a million, we`ll give a super shout out more on that to come.  But that`s not all, every time we crossed one of those milestones, I have to be the subject, my producer says, of the 10 out of 10 in the form of   some sort of video challenge voted on by you. Better not be a dunk tank. I`ll see you tomorrow, everyone. Thanks for being the absolute best   audience in news. END 

Date: 2023-08-31
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up sunshine, Happy Friday Eve. It`s Thursday, August 31st, a great day to be brave, to be better, to believe.   And most importantly, be you to full.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we start with the latest on Hurricane Idalia. The powerful storm made landfall in Florida yesterday with heavy   rain and winds of 110 miles per hour. It`s the strongest hurricane in at least 125 years to hit Florida`s big bend region of the Gulf coast. This   was the state`s third hurricane in the past 12 months.  Right before it made landfall, Idalia experienced what`s called an extreme, rapid intensification. That`s when winds increased by more than 35 miles   per hour, within a 24-hour span, scientists say that`s becoming more and more common due to warm water temperatures.  Idalia jumped from a Category 1 to a Category 4, the second highest rating on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale. It then dropped back to a   Category 3 before hitting land. It pushed water onto shore in a record setting storm surge. It also cut off power to hundreds of thousands of   people. And checked this out, pilots caught this rare footage while evacuating an air base ahead of the storm. That`s not lightning. It`s an   uncommon weather event, an electrical phenomenon known as St. Elmo`s fire.  After the fast-moving storm passed through the recovery and cleanup effort began right away. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CARLOS SUAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  We are in Pinellas County, just on the other side of Tampa Bay, where there -- there`s still some flooding   concerns for a part of the city. The mayor tells me that they`re still waiting for some of this water to recede, so that officials get a better, a   clearer picture of the kind of damage that they`re dealing with here.  Jerry, if you can show them just up the street from where we are here along the coastline. You can see, one emergency crews out here on a pickup truck.   They`ve been driving up and down a little bit further up the street out here were told some streets up there are pretty blocked off cars really   can`t get in and out of that area.  We are in Gulfport, again, a part of Pinellas County where we expected a lot of this storm search to take hold. It`s what -- it was the one thing   really that emergency officials across the Tampa bay area and Pinellas County were really worried about. They didn`t want folks to be out here   doing exactly what they`re doing at least earlier in the day, because we still were going to have all of this water coming in off -- off the   coastline out here. We`ve had a little bit of rain, although much of that has since cleared.  And so officials really were just telling folks really stay home, stay away from this part of town because we`re still dealing with some significant   flooding. The mayor tells me that a lot of the damage again does seem to have been, more storm surge related than anything else. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten Second Trivia. Leonids, Perseids, and Quadrantids are all names of what? Constellations, Animal orders, Meteor showers or Fields of mathematics? Shower me with a show of hands if you set meteor showers. These types occur in different parts of the year. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHAD MYERS, CNN WEATHER CORRESPONDENT:  This fireball lit up the Colorado night sky, as it traveled over the Western U.S. Sidings were also reported   in Nebraska, New Mexico, Utah, and Wyoming. NASA media watch field of reports of loud booms and shaking in the area caused by shockwaves as the   media disintegrated. They estimate the fireball hurdle through the sky at approximately 41,000 miles per hour, traveling 48 miles in four seconds   before it crumbled above the Keystone forest. We get questions here all the time about comets asteroids and meteors, meteorites. What`s the difference? Well, let`s start in space and work our   way all the way down to the surface.  A comet is a snowball. It`s a piece of ice. Now, the ice is mainly frozen gas, not water. But there could be dust and rocks and things inside the   comet. Halley`s Comet, now NASA knows of about 3,600 other comets than that one out there. Closer in, in the asteroid belt. These are rocks, not gas.   They could be metal as well, but they are hard surfaces. And sometimes they come out of the asteroid belt, get closer to the surface of the earth, or   at least our atmosphere.  If one or a piece of a smaller one called a meteoroid, hits the surface of the atmosphere, it turns into a meteor. It gets bright because it hits our   atmosphere and begins to burn up. If it doesn`t make its way all the way down to the surface, it turns into a shooting star.  Now, if it does make its way all the way down to the surface of the earth and hits the ground, and you can pick it up, that is a meteorite. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Have you ever heard of urban heat islands? If you live in a big city, you know how hot it can get in the summer, especially with all that   heat radiating up off the concrete and asphalt, that`s called the urban heat island effect. And it was first documented way back in the 1800 by a   meteorologist in London. Today, we have tools that can help us identify and map these islands, which can be 18 degrees hotter than the areas around them. And that`s important.   So these hot spots can be cooled down. And that`s exactly what the architects in our next story are trying to do. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KEENAN GIBBONS, LECTURER UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN:  In one study at the city had temperatures over 150, 160 degrees. We`re cooking vast swabs of our   city well done every single day. Why are we accepting so little? Why are the people here tolerating this? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Our cities are hot by design, but they don`t have to be that way. Architects Keenan Gibbons and Salvador Lindquist are uncovering   exactly how we`re cooking our cities using specialized tools like this drone. GIBBONS:  I have snap pictures in parallel. So I get a standard photo and then you get an identical thermal one at the exact same time. And it`s   opened up a whole world that just didn`t exist previously. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Our cities are hotter than surrounding rural areas. Sometimes 15 to 20 degrees hotter in extreme cases. SALVADOR LINDQUIST, UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA-LINCOLN:  Heat is amplified due to the different types of materials that you would commonly find in the   city, asphalt, concrete, reflective building services. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This is the urban heat island effect, governments and organizations use satellites to measure heat distribution on a regional   scale. LINDQUIST:  The problem with that is that satellites can only understand heat at a 30 meter by 30-meter resolution. We`re trying to find ways to   understand the really highly localized impacts of heat. GIBBONS:  And the drone gets you right in there. I mean, you`d know that pavement was hot, but how hot? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The drone moves in an automated precalculated path. GIBBONS:  It`s similar to, if you`re a hockey fan, like a Zamboni machine. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And takes tons of photos of a street scape. GIBBONS:  About 2400, 2200 photos.  LINDQUIST:  Allowing for 3D modeling in thermal comparison.  GIBBONS:  It shows this area because it captures an intersection in any city USA. And so this is the urban heat island material palette. The air   temperature on this day was 84 degrees Fahrenheit. Shaded concrete was 89, exposed concrete 110 degrees Fahrenheit. So we`re jumping 20 degrees. LINDQUIST:  The full 30 degrees difference from the surface of the parking lot to the shade immediately behind me. GIBBONS:  But Bitumen Rooftops are measuring upwards of 160 degrees Fahrenheit. Beef is considered cooked well done at 160 degrees. LINDQUIST:  Heat is the leading cause of natural disaster related deaths in the United States and likely the world. GIBBONS:  We can build a model from this detailed map and then provide appropriate treatment options, you know, going forward. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Keenan and Sal hope other architecture firms, companies, and even cities use this toolkit in the future who can then   fight the urban heat island effect with vast tree coverage, lighter pavement and white, or even green roofs. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Some cities have trouble mowing grass and hard to reach places, but America`s goat talent have no fear. Your eco-friendly grazers are here. The   city of Chicago goated these goats after they spent two weeks filling up on grassoline, clearing seven acres of hard-to-reach vegetation around power   lines. The city`s celebrated by giving them a driving tour around Chicago. These munching mowers are the greatest of all time helping to prevent   outages caused by overgrown power lines since 2019, not bad, not bad at all.  And some of the other greatest of all time, the students and teachers at Lewis and Clark Middle School in Meridian, Idaho. You get the shout out   today. Make the most of your moments today.  An ancient philosopher once said, we all have two lives. The second begins though, when we realized we have just one. I`m Coy Wire, and I`ll see you   tomorrow. END 

Date: 2023-09-01
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. We made it to Friday. The weekend is upon us. Anyone have some big plans this weekend? Message me   @coywire on Insta, Snapchat, and Twitter and TikTok. I`d love to hear about it. We have a pack show today, the best 10 minutes in news, let`s get to   it.  We`re going to switch things up today a bit though. Pop quiz hotshot.  Which of these cities will host the 2024 Summer Olympics?  Paris, France, Milan, Italy, Los Angeles, California, or Brisbane, Australia? All of these are future Olympic sites, but the next summer games will be in Paris.  They are less than a year away, the Summer Olympic and Paralympic games and just as the world`s best athletes are ramping up their training, Parisians   are having to ramp up their preparations to welcome millions of people from all over the world.  Let`s break the upcoming games down by the numbers. Paris has 10 million tickets available for the Olympics. There are 329 medal events in 32   different sports across 18 days of competition. Paris tourism says there will be more than a quarter of a million rooms available during the games   for accommodations. And they`re predicting that up to 15.9 million people could visit the region next summer. But Paris is over 2000 years old. So   that city has some really old bones. It`s an added challenge, not just regarding infrastructure, but also the transportation system. CNN`s Jim   Bittermann has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JIM BITTERMANN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  With less than a year ago before Paris hosts the next Summer Olympics, officials   have been showing off how much work has been done with President Emmanuel Macron, having promised 1.5 billion euros, to ensure the accessibility of   the competition to athletes, visitors, and tours. But accessible is a word scoff at by some disabled like Franck Maille, go for a tour with Maille, a   Paralympic winner himself on Paris`s most accessible public transport systems. And you see the problems which face the 350,000 disabled visitors   expected to attend next year`s games.  When Maille comes into the city, for instance, he uses a renovated train line equipped with elevators, making it accessible, but he points out not   accessible without help. And while there are elevators, there`s sometimes hard to find or not functioning, as a disabled British visitor found out. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  All of the lists were broken every single one. BITTERMANN:  And if the most modern subway line has problems, the 13 other older lines of the famous Paris Metro are simply impossible for disabled   users.  (On camera):  While the Metro system is no doubt, the most efficient way to get around Paris, it was built more than a hundred years ago, and most of   the stations are like this one, not accessible to anyone who can`t go up and downstairs.  The Metro system is gradually making improvements. Officials don`t believe that more than 14% of it will be wheelchair accessible by 2024 in the   Olympic games. Just by comparison, Tokyo system was 90% accessible for the last Olympic games. Even the mayor of Paris admits there are problems. ANNE HIDALGO, MAYOR OF PARIS (through translator):  The Metro, which is very ancient cannot be made totally accessible. BITTERMANN:  But the mayor quickly pivots to the brand-new tramways built a ground level, which shouldn`t be a problem for those in wheelchairs. And   she points out the buses, which are being renovated and equipped with ramps, but the disabled who actually use the buses say, it`s not that   simple. FRANCK MAILLE, APF FRANCE HANDICAP:  Because for example, sometimes the extendable ramp doesn`t work or the drivers don`t know how to use them. BITTERMANN:  While the mobility issue remains a priority, there are others, housing for instance, the tens of thousands of hotel rooms and short-term   apartment rentals in the city`s historic buildings, only a tiny fraction are fully usable by people in wheelchairs. And there is the further   question of access to the bar of the bathrooms in small businesses. There are part of the Paris scene. Despite the challenges Maille is still a big   supporter of next year`s games. MAILLE:  What I say to people is come, come to see Paris. That`s clear, you know, but don`t be surprised that Paris is not more accessible. That it`s   not the best of the best because there`s still so much work to be done. BITTERMANN:  And other disability rights activists were hoping the games could transform, not just infrastructure, but also attitudes toward the   disabled. Yet with less than a year ago before the games they say that looks increasingly doubtful. Jim Bittermann, CNN Paris. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Look out, a record-breaking moment in sports, the biggest crowd ever at a women`s sporting event in the entire world.  On Wednesday, women`s volleyball in Lincoln, Nebraska are whopping 92,003 fans filled Memorial Stadium at the University of Nebraska`s campus, fans   filing in to watch the five-time NCAA champs as they took on and beat Omaha 3-0. And when the attendance record was announced over the loud speakers   crowd went wild. The previous world record for most fans at a women`s sporting event was set April of 2022 when 91 some thousand soccer fans in   Barcelona, Spain for the Barcelona versus Wolfsburg match. Congrats to all the fans and to Nebraska women`s volleyball, go Cornhuskers. Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is Dino-Mite excellent, a Jurassic classic. Every year Emerald Downs Race track in Auburn, Washington has a 14   and under T-Rex race where the winners wear T-Rex costumes. But the standout this year was not the winner. It was the four-year-old best   friends who came in last. Our Jeanne Moos has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT:  Move over thoroughbred race horses. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And they`re off in the kids T-Rex race. MOOS:  Here at Emerald Downs in Washington State, the first to go down was the blue dinosaur and the leader lost his shoe. A croc, no lace, but that   didn`t stop the one shoe teenage T-Rex from winning. Competitors had to be 14 and under long passed when the rest of the contestants had crossed the   finish line, the fight for next to last place featured these two stragglers. WES PETREE, RACE ORGANIZER:  Was it hard to run in the suit?  SYDNEY PETREE, WES PETREE`S DAUGHTER:  Yeah, it`s hard.  W. PETREE:  How hard? S. PETREE:  I`m like, super hard.  W. PETREE:  Super hard? S. PETREE:  Yeah. ALEX SCHOOLEY, RACER:  I had fun.  MOOS:  Alex Schooley and Sydney Petree are best friends. Sydney is the daughter of the race track`s marketing director. The two, four-year-olds   rock they`re warm up and then held hands as the race got underway. NATHAN SCHOOLEY, RACER`S DAD:  To watch those two little T-Rex start to waddle, um, they were trying to run, but it was more of a waddle. MOOS:  Sydney kept chewing on a toy T-Rex. W. PETREE:  We`re got to do the interview first. We got to do the interview. MOOS:  Their 100-yard dash was immortalized. N. SCHOOLEY:  Or we`re about to frame it. Careful, Alex. MOOS:  The two stragglers finally crossed the finish line. Alex, just a few feet ahead of Sydney. W. PETREE:  Definitely an amazing best friend moment. MOOS:  And don`t you dare bring up losing that word is extinct in Sydney, the T-Rex`s lexicon. W. PETREE:  First thing she said to me, when she crossed finish lines was dad. We won. We won. MOOS:  Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Tiny arms, big dreams, and an awesome attitude.  Our special shout out today is going to Western Hills University High School in Cincinnati, Ohio, rise up. Let`s take great energy, good vibes,   and lots of love into this weekend.  No episode Monday because of the Labor Day Holiday. So I`ll see you on Tuesday. Remember you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire. It`s   been a blessing to spend this week with you. END 

Date: 2023-09-05
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up, lovely people? Hope you had an awesome three-day weekend and a great slabor day, aka, Labor Day, the federal   holiday traditionally considered the official end of summer. And it`s a day that honors and recognizes U.S. workers` contributions and achievements.  Now it`s time for us to put in that work right here on CNN 10.  First up, thousands of people were trapped at the Burning Man festival. The enormous week long desert campout festival is set to focus on art,   community and self-expression. It`s held annually in a remote location called Back Rock City, a temporary community about 100 miles north of Reno,   Nevada, an event already known for testing attendees` self-reliance took on a whole new meaning this week when more than 70,000 people were left   stranded due to harsh conditions in the desert, the event was essentially shut down and attendees were told to shelter in place and conserve   supplies.  The area received two to three months of rain in just a 24 hour span. And the conditions created this impossible terrain for festival-goers to   navigate. CNN national correspondent Camila Bernal has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The decades-old gathering in the Black Rock desert is no stranger to extreme heat, but   rarely like this. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You`re sinking. I think barefoot`s the way to go. BERNAL: Two to three months worth of rain falling in just 24 hours, turning the desert ground into thick cement like paste.  Festival-goer Dean Zeller from Santa Monica, California, shot this video with his ankle deep into the mud. And from the air, you can see the standing water, muddy roads and countless RVs, vans, trucks, and other vehicles parked and helpless. ANDREW HYDE, STRANDED AT BURNING MAN FESTIVAL: When it was really wet, you couldn`t do anything. You just lived here. There`s really no way to walk   miles, you know, to get out of it.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We couldn`t leave, like we were stuck. Basically people couldn`t could barely walk, let alone ride their bikes or drive out   of here. And so that started getting a little scary. BERNAL: Many of those who tried to drive away were stuck. The situation so concerning that even President Joe Biden was briefed on the matter.  While organizers have often described the festival as a self-expression event where harshness meets creativity, few expected it to be this bad. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: But why? How did just 0.8 inches of rain lead to tens of thousands of festival goers getting trapped?  Our CNN meteorologist Derek Van Dam will break down the science to help us understand why this became such a sticky situation. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DEREK VAN DAM, CNN METEOROLOGIST: What you`re looking at here with our 3d visualization tool is the difference between desert top soil and our earthy   top soil that you and I might use to plant our vegetables in our garden, for instance. So we call that loam right, and water, as it rains, easily   absorbs into that loam or that earthy top soil.  But when you`re talking about rain, that continuously falls within the desert, it doesn`t take much to start pooling up and then mixing in with   that clay, creating that very muddy cement like mixture that ultimately costs so many thousands of people to get stuck and stranded in the desert   of Nevada.  I mean, just take a look at some of these visuals, the -- aerial visuals really speak for themselves. I mean, look at these cars, you can see the   muddy tracks and you can see completely abandoned vehicles because they simply cannot drive. It is too thick. It is too difficult to navigate that   type of cement, like mixture that is a combination of the water, not absorbing back into the ground.  We call that in impermeable surface and the simply the amount of rain that fell in such a short period of time. Here`s the radar. And, you can see   there are no flood watches in effect for the BlackRock basin. This is known as a playa. In fact, we`re going to dry things out rather quickly here over   the next 24 hours.  So as soon as we get the sun to rise this morning, we`ll get that typical evaporation that would happen within this playa that you see, just north of   empire, that shading of white, that is a dry basin across the desert. And, it normally evaporates the water when we get that break in the rain, but   that simply didn`t happen because the rain continuously fell over the same areas for a period of time on Friday and Saturday. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia:  The International Space Station and many other satellites orbit within what layer of the Earth`s atmosphere?  Troposphere, stratosphere, mesosphere, or thermosphere? Thermospherians, put your hands up. This layer extending from about 53 to 375 miles above Earth is home to the ISS. Outside of this past weekend`s college football season openers, on Monday, we had a different type of touchdown -- four astronauts returning from   space. After a six-month stay on the International Space Station, members of the crew six mission aboard the SpaceX crew dragon capsule actually made   splashdown when they landed off the coast of Jacksonville, Florida.  The astronaut`s mission was run as a joint operation between NASA and SpaceX and they were coming in hot. Literally, the spacecraft traveled at a   speed of more than 17,000 miles per hour on its way back to earth and the exterior of the capsule heated to about 3,500 degrees Fahrenheit. I`m   sorry, what, wouldn`t I be burning up inside? Good question.  Yes, the crew was protected at a comfortable temperature. Well, below 100 degrees Fahrenheit. Next up, a project that I am pumped to share with you. This Friday, at 9:00 Eastern on CNN, I have an hour-long documentary coming out. It`s on "THE   WHOLE STORY WITH ANDERSON COOPER" and it`s called "Hard Hits: Can Football Be Safe?" I played nine years in the NFL. I have a titanium plate and four screws in my neck, so I know how dangerous the game can be, but I was blown away   learning about the technology and innovation being used to make the game safer now and for future generations. Could advancements in the game one   day help keep players safer by predicting injuries before they happen?  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Can your data potentially predict when a player might get an injured? CHRISTINA MACK, EPIDEMIOLOGIST: Absolutely. That`s culture change. WIRE: Christina Mack is an engineer and epidemiologist. She presents data to the NFL`s competition committee, the group that reviews league rules and   any potential changes every year. MACK: You rank teams over five years where the Super Bowl trophies are. WIRE: Wow. MACK: It`s a winning strategy. Your players are more available. They`re performing where they want to be performing and they`re not getting re-  injured. WIRE: That`s just some of the NFL`s big data crunching, from high tech body scanning that`s being used at the NFL combine. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: One, go. WIRE: To tracking body movements, to optimize performance, and detect imbalances that could potentially lead to injuries, to sensors on the   bodies inside helmets and mouth guards.  Turn `em into a video game. JEFF R. CRANDALL, BIOMECHANICAL ENGINEER: We`re having you go through a set of drills where we`ve tracked all your motions. WIRE: That`s biomechanical engineer and lab CEO, Jeff Crandall and his Biocore research team.  All right, I`m all sensored up. And the idea is that they will be able to see, am I favoring any part of my body? Are there any anomalies,   imbalances? Stadiums in the league this year will have dozens of these cameras that will be able to track players` movements. That way, if there isn`t injury   on game day, they can go back and look at the data before that. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Bottom line is with all the information that`s available to us, camera angles, or sensors or injury data, we`re going to get to the   place where we`ll understand risk, and maybe someday be able to predict with some degree of certainty, which players are more likely to be injured   than others. We can intervene before it happened.  CRANDALL: Go. WIRE: Ask for me, how did I do more than a dozen years after I left the NFL? CRANDALL: We see both knees and the left hip it`s causing too much load to go through your knees.  WIRE: I didn`t tell you anything on me that was bothering me, but each day when I wake up, neither knee feels great. And my left hip is off. CRANDALL: The good news is if we look at you over we`ve normed, all the players relative to the NFL population, you`re right in the middle. So   you`ve sort of still got it. WIRE: Still got it? CRANDALL: Still got it. WIRE: Okay. All right.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Go. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Our final story of the day is a little cheesy, actually very cheesy - - 80 workers in a tiny Mexican town of Pijijiapan breaking the Guinness World Record for world`s largest string cheese ball. It weighs 1,230   pounds, and it took more than 1,500 gallons of milk to make this monster it`s actually made out of Oaxaca cheese. The look on the people`s faces is   so sweet, I can`t even bear it.  Well, I hate to be cheesy, but life`s good to y`all, and today is actually National Cheese Pizza Day, and a lot of shops out there actually have some   pretty good deals. So take advantage if that`s your thing. All right. Our special shout-out today goes to North Hartford High School in Pylesville, Maryland. You have a pizza my heart.  I`m Coy Wire and I`ll see you tomorrow. END     

Date: 2023-09-06
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello and happy Wednesday. It`s #YourWordWednesday. Your vocabulary word on CNN 10. Follow me @coywire, put   your word definition and school and a teacher in the comment section on my most recent post, and we`ll choose a winner to work into tomorrow`s show.  We start today with the latest news on North Korea. According to the U.S. government, Kim Jong Un, the leader of North Korea plans to travel to   Russia, to meet president Vladimir Putin, for discussions on a potential deal to supply Moscow with weapons for its war on Ukraine. The warning came   from the National Security Council, and they said that weapon negotiations between Russia and North Korea are actively advancing. But we don`t have   any information on when and exactly where a potential meeting between the leaders might take place.  The U.S. and its allies are concerned about the meeting specifically, the U.S. has increasing concerns over that with which North Korea could supply   Russia in terms of military assistance for Russia`s war effort in Ukraine. And experts are also concerned that in return, Russia could supply North   Korea with technology that could be dangerous specifically technology that could advance North Korea`s satellite and nuclear-powered submarine   capabilities.  Just last month, North Korea made a second attempt to launch a spy satellite into orbit, though it failed. The Biden administration has   routinely declassified intelligence about support that Russia is receiving, or is planning to receive in an effort to deter countries from providing   support for their war effort. We`ll head to so South Korea now to hear from CNN International Correspondent, Paula Hancocks. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The first and last meeting between the current leaders of Russia and North Korea was more than four   years ago since then Russian President Vladimir Putin invaded Ukraine and his military efforts are faltering. So for Kim Jong Un, the power dynamics   have changed. DAVID SANGER, NY TIMES & CNN CONTRIBUTOR: A large power is now dependent on him. That hasn`t happened in a while. Are the second thing he gains is the   possibility of access to more oil. At the moment that Kim Jong Un is testing his ballistic missiles, particularly the long-range ones, many of   which have design commonalities with Russian missiles, he can get a lot of help there. HANCOCKS: U.S. official believe Moscow could receive multiple types of munitions from Pyongyang in any arms deal, which could be used on the front   lines in Ukraine. The Biden administration believes North Korea already delivered infantry rockets and missiles for use by Russian mercenary force Wagner last year. U.S. officials assess Kim Jong Un may travel to Russia to meet Vladimir Putin this month. There is an eastern economic forum in Vladivostok next   week. Letters of support have been exchanged between the two leaders. Russia`s Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu was given the red-carpet treatment   by Kim in Pyongyang in July. The North`s military capabilities were on full display. And South Korea`s intelligence agency says a second Russian   delegation visited at the start of August. By August 8th, a Russian plane is believed to have transferred unknown military supplies from Pyongyang,   no evidence or destination given. Pyongyang and Moscow deny any potential arms deal. CARL SCHUSTER, INSTRUCTOR, HAWAII PACIFIC UNIVERSITY: Kim is becoming more paranoid than normal over the last four or five years. And so for him this   alliance achieves, makes him look less isolated, provides a psychological boost for him and his inner circle. HANCOCKS (on camera): Politically, both Vladimir Putin and Kim Jong Un stand to benefit greatly from a closer alliance. They are united by a   common enemy, the United States, and they both want an alternative world order, a world where the U.S. is less powerful and where U.N. security   council resolutions are less able to be imposed. Paula Hancocks, CNN Seoul. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  We`ve got new info that says pesky invasive species are causing a whopping 423 billion in damage every year in this world, an invasive   species is defined as one that causes economic or environmental harm in an environment to which it is not native. And a new U.N. report says that   human movement like travel or global trade is spreading these animals, plants, and other organisms in new regions at an unprecedented rate. The   report says these alien troublemaker species are driving plant and animal extinctions contributing to food scarcity and making environmental   disasters worse all around the planet. And get this, we`re discovering about 200 new alien species every year and out of the 37,000 alien species that have been introduced all over the   world, a whopping 3,500 of them are causing serious problems. They`re ruining crops, wiping out native species in certain areas, polluting our   water and spreading disease. It`s hitting our wallets hard too. Scientists are saying the associated economic costs have been skyrocketing at least   quadrupling every 10 years since 1970, the study hopes these findings will lead to more ideas and cooperation for prevention in the future.  Ten Second Trivia. In tennis, what term is used to describe a score of zero? Deuce, Nil, Love or Let? Show me some love with some hard hands if you said love. Historians, don`t exactly know why, but love is the word use and tennis to denote no score.  The U.S. open is underway in New York city dating back to 1987. It`s the fourth and final major or grand slam tennis tournament held each year. The   others are the Australian Open, French Open and Wimbledon. Well, if you have cat light quickness and golden retriever light chasing skills, you   might find yourself on the court with the biggest tennis stars in the world. CNN`s very own Jon Sarlin has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JON SARLIN, CNN:  Tennis balls, for two weeks of the year, they`re inescapable in Queens, New York on the grounds of the U.S. Open. But who   collects all those balls? The stoic and hard running ball crew members chasing them down with the best standing view in the house. We decide to   find out what it takes to become a member of the U.S. Open ball crew from Tiahnnee Noble, the head trainer. (On camera):  What makes a good ball crew member? TIAHNNEE NOBLE:  So its agility, definitely. We want to be fast out to that ball and get back. Um, we`re attentive because we`re obviously servicing   the world`s best tennis players. We want to have fast, flat and accurate roles and then teamwork. SARLIN:  I know there is this kind of intense tryout for the ball crew members. Would you be able to show me --  NOBLE:  Yeah, absolutely. We can get out.  SARLIN:  -- what that would entail? NOBLE:  Yeah, we can get out on court. So I`m going to bring Rachel in.  SARLIN:  OK. NOBLE:  She`s going to help. She`s part of the ball crew. SARLIN:  Hey Rachel.  RACHEL:  Hello. SARLIN:  Is it hard?  RACHEL:  It can be difficult, but it`s a lot of fun.  SARLIN:  There are three things every crew member needs to master, retrieving the ball, rolling the ball and servicing the ball back to the   player. First up, retrieving the ball.  NOBLE:  You ready? SARLIN:  OK. RACHEL:  Your responsibility is any ball that is hit into the net, run as fast as you can, pick up the ball with two hands and then return to your   ready position. Second one coming. SARLIN:  The trickiest part, figuring out where to run after grabbing the ball. NOBLE:  Back, back, back, back. RACHEL:  Usually if it`s before the central line, you`re going to run back. But then if it`s past that central line --  SARLIN:  You`re going to keep going.  RACHEL:  You`re going to keep going. Go all the way across. SARLIN:  Who`s tough?  (Voice-over): Next, rolling the ball without bouncing it. NOBLE:  Instead of doing same foot, same arm, throw opposite so you can get down low.  That`s it?  SARLIN:  Would you say the role is the hardest part?  RACHEL:  Yeah, I think so. Because a lot of time your adrenaline is pumping and then you still have to have a very accurate role. NOBLE:  I remember low to the ground, low to the ground. No, opposite, opposite.  SARLIN:  Have you ever rolled in the blue? RACHEL:  Occasionally by accident. SARLIN:  And finally servicing the ball back to the players, which not only requires ball skills, but some mind reading seems. NOBLE:  Go up as if you`ve got a player right there, ready to serve it. And you`re going to send them two, maybe three, maybe four.  SARLIN:  And do they say that? NOBLE:  It`s all like nonverbal cues, whether it`s a head nod, whether it`s a racket little movement and you want it just to be a nice task. So it`s   coming up around their waist height. You don`t want too much air on it. SARLIN:  Just so maybe like a --  NOBLE:  Not as forceful. SARLIN:  There another put.  NOBLE:  There is. SARLIN:  Is that the kind of toss? NOBLE:  That`s the kind of toss. They`ll typically tap back. So you have to be attentive. Grab those two, then go back into position. SARLIN:  So you put me through the ringer.  NOBLE:  Yep.  SARLIN:  I got to ask you, how`d I do? NOBLE:  You did all right. There`s a few things you can probably like learn and maybe come back next year. SARLIN:  Better luck next year? NOBLE:  Yes. Come back next year. SARLIN:  I`ll take that. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  The most dominant competitive eater in the world has tasted defeat. Joey Chestnut goes down at the U.S. Chicken Wing Eating Championship on   Sunday, Australian James Webb, setting a new world record at Highmark Stadium in Orchard Park, New York. He devoured 276 wings in just 12   minutes. That`s about 23 each minute. Chestnut ate 36 fewer wings than Webb. But Joey says, he`ll be back next year hungry for revenge. Orchard   Park, New York, that`s where the Buffalo bills play, where I played six of my nine NFL seasons and where I learned to shout out on some Buffalo wing,   something fierce. So if any of you want to challenge me, I say, wing it on baby. Special shout out today goes to Diamond High School in Anchorage, Alaska, rise up. Thank you for subscribing and commenting on our YouTube page. I`m   Coy Wire and I`ll see you tomorrow. END 

Date: 2023-09-07
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello and happy Friday Eve. It`s Thursday, September 7th. And we have a jampacked show, but only 10 minutes to do it.   So let`s get right to it. Keeping you on your toes today. So pop quiz, hot shot. One of the richest countries in Africa, what nation`s capital is   Libreville? Ghana, Gabon, Senegal or Tanzania? Home to over 2 million people, the mostly French speaking country of Gabon is the answer here.  Let`s learn a little bit about what`s going on in Gabon now. The leader of Gabon`s military General Brice Nguema was sworn in as interim president   during a televise ceremony Monday. Last week, the General lead coup or military takeover that ousted President Ali Bongo. This takeover ended the   previous family`s power over many decades of rule over Gabon.  The previous leader was in power for 14 years and was recently declared the winner of a disputed presidential election. There were voting delays,   internet cuts, and the administration did not allow coverage of the vote by foreign press.  After Bongo the previous ruler was ousted. He was placed on house arrest and the new group in power voided the election results and shut the   country`s borders. And this has since triggered global condemnation of the coup. Celebrations also breaking out across the tiny nation and thousands   of supporters expressed solidarity with the military. There was even a military parade for General Nguema`s inauguration.  No one knows how long Nguema will have power. He said the country will not rush into any new election. So as to avoid a "repeat of past mistakes." CNN   Senior International Correspondent, David McKenzie has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ALI BONGO ONDIMBA, FORMER PRESIDENT OF GABON:  I`m Ali Bongo Ondimba, President of Gabon. DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  An extraordinary plea for international help. The ousted president of Gabon, Ali Bongo, and the house arrest. ONDIMBA:  To tell, to make noise, to make noise for the people here have arrested me.  MCKENZIE:  The noise was not enough. On Monday, the new military leader sworn in. "I solemnly undertake on my honor to do my utmost to achieve national unity," says Gabon`s Junta Leader.  MCKENZIE (on camera):  Is there a fear that there is contagion happening here? CAMERON HUDSON, CENTER FOR STRATEGIC AND INTL. STUDIES:  Well, I don`t think it`s a fear of contagion. There is contagion. MCKENZIE:  It`s just the latest domino to fall. In just three years, a cascade of military takeovers spreading across west and now central Africa.   Most of them form French colonies, but each with a specific cocktail of grievances over security, corruption, and a lack of opportunity. HUDSON:  This is a wave who has -- whose time has not yet crested. I think we`re going to see several more of these in the coming months and years   before we see a kind of return to what we thought was a normal state in the kind of post-cold war era. MCKENZIE (voice-over):  The condemnations have been universal. The impact minimum. African and Western powers face a dilemma in Niger, there is   apparent popular support for the coup and deep anger towards France. Plans for a regional military intervention have stalled. French counter terror   forces have withdrawn from two of the countries. Their position in Niger is tenuous at base. At Sahel, Niger for the U.S. multimillion dollar drone   bases critical in fighting extremist groups. The state department is treading carefully. VEDANT PATEL, U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT SPOKESPERSON:  And continue to advocate for a diplomatic solution that respects the constitutional order in Niger.  MCKENZIE:  In Gabon, state media showed off bags of cash. They say they were found at the son of the president`s home and at the home of another   official. CNN couldn`t independently verify these images. For more than 50 years, Omar Bongo and his son, Ali Bongo run as oil, rich nation, much of   their wealth was kept in France. Most Gabonese young and old had only known the rule of the Bongo family and its cronies. CHRIS FOMUNYOH, NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTE:  So for them, the military coup in the short-term looks much better than anything that they`ve been   living through. And one can understand that boost of immediate support and what the military and various missionary groups bring to the continent is   less opportunities for freedom for democracy than more. MCKENZIE:  David McKenzie, CNN, Johannesburg.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  And now let`s talk about Venice, AKA, the floating city, which has so much rich history, art, architecture, and charm, that it can bring a   sort of ebullience to many who visit.  If anyone you know is thinking about making the day trip to the floating city, listening to this. Starting in the spring of 2024, if you`re not   spending the night, you`ll have to fork over five euros. That`s about $5.40 to get into the city on super busy days. The city is making history as the   first in the world to charge folks an entry fee.  This isn`t a permanent thing. It`s like a 30-day test run. And instead of doing it all in one month, they`re picking days when they expect tons of   visitors like holidays in the peak carnival season. The goal, to discourage day tourists during those crazy times.  So here`s the deal. Venice can get seriously crowded. On some days, there are way more tourists than actual residents. They`re still working out the   official dates when the fee will apply.  But here`s the scoop, for those who live there commute, own a second home, or are staying overnight, you`re off the hook. You`ll just have to register   online for your visit. The money they collect from these entry fees in part will help cover the cost of this booking system.  And you know what, other European cities dealing with Hordes of day- trippers or keeping a close eye on this test, run in Venice. They`re wondering if they too can pull off something similar to deal with the whole   over tourism thing. Coming up, have you ever thought about how clean your place really is? I mean, even though it might look clean, what about those sneaky germs hiding   where you can`t really see them? Well, up next CNN`s Clare Duffy decided to roll up her sleeves and get down and dirty testing the germs in her home.  And one more thing, I`ve always wondered, do we ever truly get rid of dirt and dust? Like if we wipe it up and toss it in the garbage or broom it   away, it kind of just gets moved around, doesn`t it? Anyways, let`s see what nasties might be lurking beneath the surface of our spaces. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CLARE DUFFY, CNN BUSINESS WRITER:  I want to know, was I the dirtiest? PAUL DAWSON, PROFESSOR, CLEMSON UNIVERSITY:  It was a code. So we don`t know who was who, but whoever`s A, was the least contaminated. DUFFY:  Yes. (Voice-over):  We set out on an experiment guided by food scientist, Paul Dawson, to collect samples from the homes of our colleagues, family, and   friends to find out which spot in our homes has the most germs. Across five homes, we tested the same spots. Four days after they were cleaned. The kitchen sink drain, the kitchen countertop, the bathroom   toilet seat, the bathroom faucet handles and the front door entryway. The lab, isolated bacterial cells and documented them as they multiplied,   growing into colonies that we can see.  (On camera):  This is really gross. I mean the front door one, especially, it just looks, I mean, it`s covered, right? I was really worried about when   you walk in the front door, that ground, because we live in New York City and the ground is dirty. DAWSON:  So you`re really concerned about that. Maybe having a door mat that you can clean periodically. DUFFY:  Our non-scientific experiment confirmed decades of research microbes, including bacteria live all around us. We`re familiar with the   dangerous ones like salmonella, listeria and E. coli, plus viruses that we didn`t test for. But not all germs are bad. In fact, most are just fine for   us. And some help our bodies function.  (On camera):  The thing that surprises people most about the germs in their homes is? DAWSON: That the tallest seed is probably the cleanest place in their house. DUFFY:  So the places where we prepare our food, those were dirtier than the toilet seats.  DAWSON:  I would say yes, definitely. DUFFY:  The National Sanitation Foundation recommends using a weak bleach solution to sanitize kitchen drains and disposals once a month. For your   sponge, try to replace it often. DAWSON:  Across the board, the sponges, very highly contaminated with bacteria and mold. DUFFY:  So in that sponge, I replace my sponge every week. So that sponge was only three days old. DAWSON:  Yeah, it`s impossible to remove all the bacteria. They`re going to be there no matter what. The point is, most bacteria are harmless, are   positive. There`s a few that aren`t. That`s where the sanitation would come in. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  The Danish Chamber Orchestra had some pretty unique performers at their recent gig. A canine choir was howling at the moon, putting on a rare   show, featuring the hunting symphony, a piece composed by Leopold Mozart who happens to be Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart`s dad, did you know?  So here`s the scoop, 10 dogs tried out for this gig, but only three made the cut, Cookie, Sophus, and Sica. These furry rock stars got picked   because their barks sounded just about right. And they could handle the loud music and the loud crowd.  All right, we have a shout out to Mr. Mason, history teacher at Mio, in Mio, Michigan. Your Miley submitted the winner of #YourWordWednesday.   Ebullience, a noun meaning the quality of being cheerful and full of energy. Well done. I`m Coy Wire and we`ll see you tomorrow. END     

Date: 2023-09-08
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Good morning. Good afternoon. Good evening. Wherever you are in this world. Go on and smell the flowers and cool the   soup. It is Friday, baby. Let`s finish this week strong and kick our weekend off right. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10 with the latest in   political news. The U.S. presidential election is coming up next year. And several days ago, we covered the first Republican presidential primary   debate and showed you the candidates that will be competing to become the next commander in chief. While a new CNN poll released yesterday shows how Americans are feeling about the likely democratic nominee, incumbent president Joe Biden and the   direction of the country right now under current leadership. CNN Political Director, David Chalian discussed it on CNN this morning. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DAVID CHALIAN, CNN POLITICAL DIRECTOR:  His approval rating is down at 39%, 61% of Americans disapprove. He`s been hanging at that low point guys, for   quite some time. We talk about the mood of the country, 14 months out from a -- from a presidential election, not that great. Three in 10 Americans,   that`s it, say things are going well in the country, 7 in 10 say things are going badly in the country. And 58% of Americans in this poll say that Joe   Biden`s policies have actually worsened economic conditions in the country, only 24% say they`ve improved economic conditions. This is why we hear him   talking about Bidenonics every day. He`s out and about in the country. PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  David, the President is the oldest president in history. He was this morning. He will be   tomorrow. That`s just the reality. And White House officials acknowledge that. Don`t love talking about it, but have long made the case. That`s not   the kind of pervasive issue for voters. It`s not going to be the determinant factor. What does this poll show?  CHALIAN:  Well, it`s certainly on the mind of voters. We`ll see how important it becomes, but it clearly is a major concern. We ask folks   though, do you think, are you seriously concerned that Biden`s age might negatively affect his ability to serve a full term? Three quarters of   Americans are indeed seriously concerned. Three quarters of Americans don`t agree on anything, but there`s concern there. You see it here too seriously   concerned about his current mental and physical competence being negatively impacted by his age and seriously concerned that his understanding of the   next generation`s concerns are impacted 68% say that and that -- and the economy, as we talked about that is what is behind these numbers.  Why Joe Biden is in a sort of dead heat margin of error race with nearly every Republican tested. Poppy noted that Nikki Haley is the exception to   that. She`s running outside the margin of error. But look at this Trump margin of error race, no clear leader. DeSantis, Pence, Scott, Ramaswamy,   Christie, they are all with no clear leader.  And I just want to know guys, one other thing that is going to cause agita for the White House team is this motivation factor. Are you extremely   motivated to vote in next year`s presidential election? Look at this, Republicans and Republican leaning independents, have a 10-point advantage   over Democrats on that score. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. In golf, finishing a hole in three shots Under par is called a what?  Birdie, Eagle, Bogey or Albatross? All of my Albatross bosses, put your hands up. Free under par for an albatross is extremely rare. One under par for birdie, two for Eagle.  Coming up next, we`ve got a golf course that four more than 50 years was perfectly manicured. Nice and neat. It was called the valley view golf club   in Akron, Ohio. But in 2015, it shut down. And today a range of grasses and native flowers are driving a whole new course of action. Accrue chipping   away at a major project in CNN`s Call to earth. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MIKE JOHNSON, CHIEF OF CONSERVATION, SUMMIT METRO PARKS:  You see there`s these large flowers down there. There`s some white ones, some pink ones.   That`s a native hibiscus. It`s in the mallow family and the wetland ones. They call them Marsh Mallow, get it. Marsh Mallows, yeah.  My name is Mike Johnson. I`m the Chief of Conservation for Summit Metro Parks. We are at the valley view area of cascade valley Metro Park. Today,   you would never know that this was ever a golf course. The vegetation that you see behind me, 90% of it is native. Whereas when this was a golf   course, 90% of it was non-native and invasive. LISA KING, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, SUMMIT METRO PARKS:  This park is right within the city of Akron limits. And when we started the acquisition, we   realized how important it was to connect the other two parks to this area. It allowed us to knit together 1800 acres. That is something that`s very   difficult to do in a county where everything is beginning to be built out. JOHNSON:  The first choice we had to make is do we allow it to restore on its own, just kind of let it go, or do we take a more active role in that   process? And because this was a golf course, we decided it was necessary to take a more active role.  We had to undo the golf course before we could restore the landscape. The next step was to establish a native cover of vegetation. And rather than   plant trees. We decided to plant nuts. And over the course of a fall, our volunteers brought us a quarter million nuts. And over the course of two   days, 600 volunteers showed up to plant, 120,000 of them.  This is the Cuyahoga River, and we`re looking out over a vast restored flood plain. When we acquired the property, the banks of the river were   steep. They`d been channelized, uh, the golf course, they wanted to keep the water out. We wanted to bring the water back into the landscape.  One of the biggest challenges of any park district is preserving our natural resources. And also at the same time, letting people come in and   enjoy them. KING:  What we knew we needed to do was one more phase where we could bring access to the river for the public. So phase two is under construction now. JOHNSON:  These parks and the wetlands and the streams filter pollutants from the water that we eventually drink. They clean the air. They provide   habitat for wildlife, including a large array of endangered species we have here in Summit County.  They`re also important for people, these are places for people to come and relax to de-stress. They`re important for recreation and connecting with   nature for especially young people to connect with nature and inspire them to become the next generation of land stewards. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  The endless game foundation in north Kansas city just blew the roof off the record books. They went all out, playing in the longest baseball   game, ever clocking in at a jaw dropping 100 hours and one minute of nonstop action. The old record was just over 83 hours. They played in   shifts, subbing in and out. So nobody got too burned out, but it gets even better. During this epic five days showdown, the endless game foundation pulled in cash for not one, not two, but seven different charities. Talk about   putting the fun in raising funds.  All right, I have to give two shout-outs today. One to my high school, Cedar Cliff High School in Camp Hill, PA, rise up. You`ll see it. And even   old video of this dude. That`s 14-year-old me. You can apparently notice a difference, right?  My one-hour documentary airs on CNN and Sunday at 8:00 p.m. Eastern. And I have to shout out Mr. Pulsifer and his class at Indian Hills Middle School   in Sandy, Utah. Y`all are so far. You make hot sauce melt. I wish you all an awesome weekend. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to   spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2023-09-11
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, lovely people. I`m Coy, hoping your weekend was wonderful and you`re feeling refreshed and ready to rock this Monday.   We have just 16 Mondays left in 2023, each one offering a new beginning and chance to shine. So let`s make them count. Shall we?  We`re going to start today in the North African nation of Morocco, a 6.8 magnitude, powerful earthquake shook Morocco`s high Atlas mountain range   shortly after 11:00 p.m. Local time on Friday. Rescuers in Morocco are still searching for survivors. Tragically, at the time of this recording,   at least 2,000 people had lost their lives, 1,400 others in critical condition.  The worst damage and destruction has been in isolated mountain areas, which are difficult to access. Residents have described entire villages,   suffering damage with rescuers, unable to reach those in need. Morocco`s worst earthquake of modern times was in 1960 when at least 12,000 people   died. But the scale of this weekend`s quake and the impact is still becoming clear. More now from meteorologist Allison Chinchar, who has more on the details of the earthquake and its aftershocks. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST: We know the original quake was a magnitude 6.8 at a depth of about 11 miles for geological standards that is   considered extremely shallow.  Now, after that main quake, just 19 minutes after that, they had their first aftershock, a 4.9 magnitude, and 4.9 may not sound like that much,   but after having the dad, the 6.8, keep in mind, you`re going to have a lot of those buildings. A lot of the homes that are now structurally   compromised. So even something like a 4.9 can cause subsequent damage, that was felt the original quake was felt as far away as neighboring countries   of Algeria and Portugal.  But again, to show you how rare it is for this region to experience such large quakes, just since 1900, there have only been maybe a handful of   quakes at a magnitude 5.0 or higher. So again, it`s very rare in this area.  Now we had the original quake at a 6.8, one since aftershock of 4.9 we really don`t know how long it`s going to be before there could be another,   would there be multiple in a row? Each earthquake is different, but on average, statistically speaking, there could be one an aftershock of at   least a 5.8 and even say a 4.2, a 4.5, even though it`s a much smaller number, it could still cause a tremendous amount of additional damage just   because those buildings, especially the older ones have already been structurally compromised by the initial quake. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: All right, thank you, Allison. And more now on how this tragic earthquake is impacting the people of Morocco. Here`s CNN Senior   International Correspondent, Sam Kiley. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Marocco`s King Mohammed has declared three days of national mourning here in Marrakesh and that is   because his country has been completely devastated by an extraordinary earthquake totally unexpected in cities like this, Marrakesh.  This has been the scene here in the Medina, the most ancient part of this ancient city. Here a building clearly ripped away by this earthquake but   the scenes have been even worse in the interior of the country where one woman who was trapped for some 12 hours was pulled from rubble in a remote   village.  Now there are 13 people dead here in Marrakesh across the country more than 1300 people have died and the authorities here expect those numbers to   climb with some rapidity. Their problem though is getting out into the areas that are worst affected.  The epicenter is about 45 miles south of Marrakesh but the areas that have been really badly devastated according to the local authorities have been   villages in the foothills of the Atlas Mountains.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: The people of Morocco will need assistance in the days, weeks and months to come, organizations are on the ground, responding to the disaster   right now, and CNN`s Impact Your World has ways to support relief efforts. For more information, about ways to help you can visit CNN`s Impact Your   World website. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This just in, you were looking at obviously a very disturbing live shot there. That is the world trade center. And we have   unconfirmed reports this morning that a plane has crashed into one of the towers of the world trade center. CNN Center right now is just beginning to   work on this story. Obviously calling our sources and trying to figure out exactly what happened, but clearly something relatively devastating   happening this morning there on the south end of the island of Manhattan. That is once again a picture of, one of the towers of the World Trade   Center. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Today is Monday, September 11th, and it marks the 22nd anniversary of the attacks on American soil. The day caused chaos, terror and death when   the Al-Qaeda terrorist group carried out coordinated attacks against America, nearly 3000 people were killed when terrorists flew commercial   airplanes into the World Trade Center in New York City, the Pentagon in Washington, D.C., and a field in Shanksville, Pennsylvania. Today, on the anniversary of the worst terrorist attack on U.S. soil, president Joe Biden is scheduled to observe the moment at a military base   in Alaska with service members and their families. First lady, Jill Biden will lay a wreath at the 9/11 Memorial at the Pentagon. And Vice President   Kamala Harris is scheduled to participate in the annual ceremony at the National September 11 Memorial Museum in New York.  We`ll go inside that museum with our Kate Bolduan now as the nation pauses to reflect and remember those who lost their lives on that tragic day. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JOE DANIELS, PRESIDENT, NATIONAL SEPTEMBER 11 MEMORIAL & MUSEUM: These tridents were from the north tower. They were recovered in the aftermath of   the attacks. We brought them back here and basically built the museum all around them. KATE BOLDUAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Joe Daniels is President and CEO of the 9/11 Memorial. (On camera): You`re not whitewashing it. This is the raw, dirty material? DANIELS: Exactly. I mean, this is the steel that, that bore the attacks. BOLDUAN: The museum is built almost entirely underground. Some 70 feet down, it sits in the precise footprint of the World Trade Center.  (On camera): Yeah. DANIELS: So this is exactly where the south tower started and went up 1,350 feet.  BOLDUAN: A striking display of the sheer scale of the destruction with poignant reminders of the tragedy at every turn. (On camera): I mean, this -- this is unbelievable. DANIELS: This is actually the front of this fire truck. This is the cab. BOLDUAN: You wouldn`t know? DANIELS: Wouldn`t know, and it`s -- it`s completely burned out and destroyed. BOLDUAN: Then there`s the retaining wall that remarkably held strong, even when the towers fell. DANIELS: When the towers came down, all that debris that was here right in this space, provided bracing for that wall. And when that debris was clear,   there was a big concern that the wall would breach, would flood lower Manhattan. BOLDUAN: It could have been so much worse, but this wall helped under all of that pressure.  (On camera): Visitors will also walk alongside the survivor stairs. DANIELS: Used by hundreds of people, as the buildings are crumbling, running from the dust cloud to escape to safety, and, it`s for all our   visitors to understand the story of survival. BOLDUAN: And likely one of the most emotional stops in the museum. This art installation mimics the blue sky on that fateful morning behind it, the   still unidentified remains of 9/11 victims. The move met with mixed emotion from their families. DANIELS: A still shocking statistic is that 1100 family members never got any human remains back to bury. Never got to go through the -- the ritual   of laying their loved ones to rest. That`s not a public space at all. Only family members are allowed back behind the wall. BOLDUAN: Right next door, a room dedicated to the lives of those lost. DANIELS: Exactly that room is in an area called In Memoriam. And it`s a photographic portrait of each and every one of the 2,983 victims. You see   pictures, a father coaching his son`s little league team, a wedding. You see the lives that were -- that were lost that day. And not just about how   they died, it`s who these people were. BOLDUAN: Throughout the museum, chilling reminders of the day, handmade flyers for the missing, across emerging from the wreckage, everyday items   simply left behind. DANIELS: We help through these artifacts and images. Tell that story of just it was panic. BOLDUAN: And while the museum is vast, one small exhibit has been the biggest source of controversy. Its focus, the terrorists themselves,   including a film criticized for not making a clear enough distinction between Islam and Al-Qaeda.  (On camera): There`s been a lot of criticism. Why give any time to the terrorists? DANIELS: You know, it`s -- it`s one way to look at it is you don`t build a Holocaust museum and not be very clear that the Nazis were the ones who   committed those atrocities. Al-Qaeda was an extremist terrorist group. But no one will come through this exhibit. And in any way, think that we are   indicting an entire religion, which we in no way are. BOLDUAN: It seems very appropriate that you end here at the last column? DANIELS: And it`s, again goes right back to resiliency, seeing those messages of hope and remembrance on this very tall column, that`s still   standing strong. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Around 30 million people, mark September 11th on their calendars each year and participate in charitable activities around the country. To learn   more, you can head to CNN`s Impact Your World site, to find volunteer opportunities and other ways to support those impacted. We`ll put links to   that and ways to support the Morocco earthquake relief efforts in the description of this video, on our YouTube channel.  I`m Coy Wire. Thank you for spending part of your day with us. We`ll see you right back here tomorrow. END 

Date: 2023-09-12
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news where I simply deliver the what, letting you   decide what to think.  We begin today with an update on North Korea and Russia. On Sunday, a train presumed to be carrying North Korean leader Kim Jong Un reportedly left the   capital of Pyongyang on its way to Russia.  Why does this matter? A highly anticipated meeting between Kim Jong Un and Russian President Vladimir Putin is of concern for the United States and   its allies who fear the meeting might lead to an arms deal where North Korea supplies weapons for Russia`s war in Ukraine.  Experts also fear that Russia might provide North Korea with new technology that could pose danger to the United States and its allies. Also   significant, this trip would be Kim`s first known trip venturing beyond North Korea`s border since the COVID-19 pandemic when the country had its   borders locked down.  While the two countries have been secretive about the meeting, it`s thought to be happening in Vladivostok, a Russian city far to the east where the   two leaders first met in the April of 2019. Senior International Correspondent Will Ripley, based in Taipei, Taiwan, has more.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WILL RIPLEY, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Inside North Korea, one of the most secretive places on the planet, a carefully guarded state secret, his   leader Kim Jong Un`s actual location. Major events are often used as decoys. Crowds can wait for hours, enduring long security lines, only to   find the leader`s seat empty.  Even Kim`s own bodyguards can serve as decoys, best known for donning dark suits, running alongside the leader`s limo during the Trump-Kim summits,   projecting power and security, riding an armor-reinforced rail card to Russia, to meet with President Vladimir Putin, a fellow strongman seen by   some as a global pariah.  Putin and Kim come with plenty of baggage, both saddled with heavy sanctions, for Kim`s nuclear and ballistic missile programs, for Putin`s   brutal, unprovoked war on Ukraine, and suspiciously timed plane crash taking out his one-time critic.  Kim may not have a reason to fear Putin, but he still does not take any chances when he travels outside North Korea. As Moscow looks to buy   artillery and other wartime supplies from its impoverished authoritarian neighbor.  CNN contacted the Russian embassy in Washington for comment. North Korea denied previously supplying Russia with rockets and missiles to use in   Ukraine. In July, Putin`s Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu was in Pyongyang as Kim showed off his latest weapons, long-range missiles and military   drones. Shoigu said Russia may even be staging joint military drills with the North. The North Korean leader has a lot to gain.  DAVID SANGER, NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST:  A large power is now dependent on him. That hasn`t happened in a while.  RIPLEY:  Kim may be willing to roll the dice, risking travel outside his borders, reducing the risk on a slow-moving, heavily fortified train.  A shade of army green on the outside, luxuriously appointed on the inside. The train is a symbol of three generations of the Kim family dynasty and a   nation stuck in the past. Kim has taken his chugging locomotive to Vladivostok before, meeting with Putin there in 2019.  This time, Kim may hope Russia will help him with oil supplies or even technology to use in its own ambitious ballistic missile program. Goal is   perhaps worthy of a rare venture beyond his nation`s hermetically sealed borders.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Pop quiz hot shot. The atmosphere of Mars is made primarily of what chemical compound?  Oxygen, Carbon Dioxide, Methane or Argon?  If you said CO2, you are winning. The Mar`s atmosphere is over 95% carbon dioxide.  Mars has been the focus for several space agencies and companies with ambitions of taking humans to infinity and beyond, but humans aren`t   naturally made to be multi-planetary movers. The conditions on the red planet Mars, for example, would be pretty harsh for us earthlings. But many   ideas, some very wild, are being discussed as solutions to making Mars livable.  One idea sprung from NASA, landing on Mars in 2021 with the Perseverance rover. It`s called MOXIE, short for Mars Oxygen In-Situ Resource   Utilization Experiment. Yeah, I don`t see how that makes sense either.  Anyways, MOXIE`s goal was to make oxygen right there on Mars by converting the abundance of carbon dioxide into precious oxygen. And the results of   the experiment are in. The device, no bigger than a microwave, generated 122 grams of oxygen. How much is that? About what your average small dog   would breathe in 10 hours or so. So not too shaggy.  Questions remain though, will future tests confirm these results, could the technology be scaled to provide astronauts with breathable air? And how   much would this cost, and is it even worth it?  Some question whether humanity should be focusing and spending on these types of efforts when we could be focusing on making our planet better   instead. For the technology itself though, this is seen by NASA as a successful experiment far exceeding their expectations.  At its peak, MOXIE produced 12 grams of 98% pure oxygen per hour, twice as much as NASA hoped for. So this might mean that we are one step closer to   some people someday becoming Mar`s.  Next up, the U.S. has around 150,000 U.S. auto workers in the United Auto Workers Union, and they could be gearing up for a strike this week. Why? If   the big three automakers, General Motors, Ford, and Stellantis can`t meet their demands, which include pay raises and better benefits.  Last week, both sides started tossing around their ideas, and while they made a little progress, it might not be enough to prevent union workers in   various states from hitting the picket lines if their demands aren`t met before their contract expires. If they strike it could throw a major wrench   in car production here in the United States.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Are you ready to rumble? CROWD:  Yeah. VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS & POLITICS CORRESPONDENT:  There`s a showdown in Detroit.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  What do we want? Fair contract!  YURKEVICH:  The United Auto Workers Union is less than a week away from a possible strike against the big three U.S. automakers, General Motors, Ford   and Stellantis.  CROWD:  We are the union.  YURKEVICH:  Teeing up what would be the second largest U.S. labor strike in a quarter century. UAW says their demands have not been met, waiting nearly   a month on new proposals.  SHAWN FAIN, PRESIDENT, UNITED AUTO WORKERS:  I`ll tell you what I`m going to do with their proposal, I`m going to file it in its proper place because   that`s where it belongs, the trash.  YURKEVICH:  The tensions have been high between the two sides. The Union representing 145,000 workers at the three automakers even filed unfair   labor practice complaints against GM and Stellantis, accusing the companies of not bargaining in good faith, which they denied.  GERALD JOHNSON, EVP, GENERAL MOTORS:  These negotiations are serious and they matter. The outcome impacts all of us, every team member and quite   frankly, every stakeholder across the country.  YURKEVICH:  For the first time ever, the UAW could strike all three automakers at once. The last strike in 2019 against General Motors cost the   company $2.9 billion over six weeks. A strike against all three could mean $5 billion in losses in just ten days.  JULIE SU, ACTING LABOR SECRETARY:  We respect their process and are hopeful that they are going to grapple through some hard issues and hopefully come   to an agreement that`s a win, win.  YURKEVICH:  The union has some ambitious demands asking for a 40% pay raise over the course of the four-year contract, restoring cost of living   increases and pension plans for all workers.  FAIN:  They`ve had our demands from the outset, and we told them we expect to get there by September 14th, and that is September 14th, a deadline, not   a reference point.  YURKEVICH:  And as the big three pivot to electric vehicles, they`re planning 10 new battery plants not under UAW contracts. The union is hoping   these next contracts protect their members in the future.  FAIN:  Workers can`t be left behind in this transition. You`re talking about 20% of the power train workers in the big three stand to lose their   jobs down the road if we go from ICE engines to battery power.  YURKEVICH: Vanessa Yurkevich, CNN, New York.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a wild storm knocking over a tree. Well, it`s swarming with a bunch of irritated honey bees and honey,   that`s not good. So guess who shows up to save the day? A friendly neighborhood news reporter, Nick Beres from WTV News Channel 5 in   Nashville.  But here`s the kicker, Nick isn`t just any old reporter, he`s actually a seasoned beekeeper, y `all. So he buzzes in to be the hero, jumping right   into the buzzing chaos, clearing out the bees to prevent them from taking over the neighborhood. Well done.  You better believe it`s time for our favorite part of the show, you. Knox, Indiana, Knox Community High School, rise up. I believe in all of you. So   keep on grinding and shining cause that`s just what we do.  I`m Coy Wire, this is CNN 10. And I`ll see you tomorrow.  END 

Date: 2023-09-13
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up lovely people. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. And it`s your CNN 10. Especially on a #YourWordWednesday. Follow me   @coywire on Insta, Snapchat, and TikTok. Put your unique vocabulary word in the comment section of my most recent post. And we`ll choose one fun one to   work into tomorrow. Show let`s go.  Now we do have to begin with some tough news out of Libya where around 5,300 people at least had died at the time of this recording, 10,000 more   believed to still be missing. And it`s the result of a terrible storm. The storm`s name is Daniel, and it dumped so much rain on Libya`s Northeast   that two dams collapse, sending water flowing into already inundated areas. And in some cases, washing whole neighborhoods away. The rain is a result of a very strong, low-pressure system that brought catastrophic flooding to Greece last week and moved into the Mediterranean   before developing into a tropical like cyclone known as a Medicane, which is a combination of the words Mediterranean and hurricane.  In addition, the collapse of two dams under the pressure of the flooding water sent even more water rushing toward these towns, creating more   catastrophic damage. Strong currents, also carrying debris and even vehicles adding to the damage. It looks like this storm is one of the   deadliest on record in north Africa.  In the wake of the tragedy, several countries have offered aid to Libya and rescue teams are scrambling to find survivors and assess the damage. In the nation of Morocco, a 6.8 magnitude earthquake struck late Friday night. More than 2,900 people had died at the time of this recording and   rescuers continued to race against the clock to search through rubble for survivors. The quake is the strongest to hit Morocco`s center in more than   a century. The epicenter of the quake was in close proximity to many tourist areas and the economic center of Marrakesh.  Complicating, the relief efforts is the nearby terrain of the Atlas Mountains, home to many isolated villages that have been devastated by this   quake. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER:  It certainly has been a somewhat delayed effort where today in the village of Moulay Brahim. And you can see behind me just   how remote some of these villages are.  We are high up in the Atlas Mountains, and that has proven to be a real struggle for rescue teams. Many of these villages, many of the hardest hit   areas across Morocco are in these remote high up mountainous areas. And that has proven to be a real challenge for rescue teams.  Now, just yesterday, we were in another village further up, further south, and this is a village which has proven hugely difficult to reach. We spoke   to people there who have been impacted by the earthquake. They told us that the international rescue teams had only just made it to the village   yesterday, that they had been spending days digging through the rubble of their collapsed homes with their bare hands.  And they have, uh, only just begun to receive that humanitarian aid, have only just begun to see doctors and medical personnel on the ground there.   And of course it has been difficult to reach some of these areas. The roads have been blocked in some places because of the debris, because of damage   to the roads. But of course there is still a real sense of frustration among these residents in these remote villages, around that delayed   response.  Many people on our living in temporary shelters, including in this village, you can see at the homes damage behind me, just further down the mountain,   many families living tent shelters now. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Let`s travel to Columbia in south America now where CNN Chief Climate Correspondent, Bill Weir has details on an innovative project to   preserve the cotton-top tamarin, acute monkey that is among the most endangered primates in the world. They`re only found in Northwestern,   Columbia and their tropical forest habitat is being destroyed. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  In one particular corner of one particular country, there lives a creature that exists   nowhere else in the world. This is Columbia and word is their unique species is adorable and elusive and critically endangered. A combination   that can frustrate when trying to spot one, but trudging through a forest hot as a sauna, our odds are better than average. Thanks to people who know   them really well. ROSAMIRA GUILLEN, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR/ CO-FOUNDER, FOUNDATION PROYECTO TITI:  They love the nature of the flowers and they stick their hair, you know,   their hair like in the flower like that, in their hair -- their facial hair. WEIR:  Rosamira Guillen started her career as a landscape architect. But when she was hired to help build a zoo, she met the animal that would   change her life and theirs, the cotton-top tamarin, a little monkey with a look right out of Dr. Seus.  (On camera):  I can see why you fell in love with these little guys. GUILLEN:  Oh yeah. You know, how can you -- how can you not? WEIR:  When she learned that the illegal pet trade and slash and burn cattle ranching had driven them to the brink of extinction, her architect   mind shifted from building zoos to rebuilding forests, which is much more difficult than just dropping seeds and soil. GUILLEN:  It may take a day to cut a hector forest, but to rebuild it, it takes about 20 years.  WEIR (voice-over):  She`s learned that rewilding takes sweat, smarts, and human relations. Because in order to connect the titi`s fragmented habitat,   she would need land. And the cooperation of ranchers who do not share her love for these monkeys. (On camera):  Is it harder working with nature or human nature?  GUILLEN:  Definitely human nature. oh, I would be happy to just hang out with the monkeys and in the forest. Our goal is to get to a certain point with there`s enough for them to be stable and make it in the long term, right? Um, our fears is that, you   know, you always fear that you don`t get enough support to keep going.  While we save this beautiful forest for them, we`re saving the forest for many other animals, you know, so all by diversity. WEIR:  And a livable planet for us? GUILLEN:  And a livable planet for us. Exactly, because we get water, we get air, we get lots of resources and that`s -- that`s why we focus so much   on connecting people with nature, to appreciate it and -- and care for it and want to do something about it. With a little help, we can make it,   because we`ve got the experience, we`ve done it. And, uh, it works. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Pop quiz, hot shot. Part of the Pacific Ocean, what body of water is located on the Southern curve of Alaska? Bering Sea, Gulf of Alaska, Beaufort Sea or Chukchi Sea? All these waterways surround Alaska, but the Gulf of Alaska is your answer here. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The yellow hat. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This mysterious golden specimen was found during a deep-sea expedition in the Gulf of Alaska. This is some sort of crusting sponge.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Uh, yeah. I don`t know what to make at that. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Scientist aboard NOAA Ship Okeanos Explorer say they discovered it about two miles below surface. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I don`t know what to think about this. It looks like we`re seeing in the chatted dead sponge attachment, which kind of makes   sense why I didn`t even know where to start. It seems spongy, but now I`m seeing potential egg case, which I could see that as well. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Dubbed the golden orb researchers say they have so far been unable to identify what it is, but confirm it is biological and   origin. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yeah, let`s give it a little tickle.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Oh, soft. Soft thermal air. OK. Hmm, yeah. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Not sure if it`ll just fall apart. If I try to grab it. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It seems like it, it seems pretty delicate. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Scientists have taken it to a lab to learn more about it. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  How many of you have ever heard of bioluminescence? Well, check out these waves in Orange County, California, this naturally occurring   phenomenon occurs when water is turned up, like these waves causing a chemical reaction in light emitting organisms, like algae blooms. There   aren`t many places in the world where you can see bioluminescence occurring naturally, and it doesn`t exclusively occur on beaches either. But whenever   you do, it`s quite the enlightening experience.  Shout out to all of you, shine in bright, like my peeves at Oak Glen High School in New Cumberland, West Virginia. This is your moment. We see you.  Now submit those vocab words @coywire for your #YourWordWednesday, your word in tomorrow`s show right here on CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-09-14
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello sunshine. It`s Thursday, September 14th. So happy Friday, Eve. Time for random thought Thursday. Why is it that we   drive on a Parkway, but we park on a driveway? I`m Coy. This is CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news, where I tell you the what, letting you decide what   to think. In Russia, North Korean Leader, Kim Jong Un, and his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin had a meeting at a Russian Space Center on Wednesday. Here`s   the scoop, U.S. officials have given a heads up that Putin might try to use this meeting to get some military weapons for his invasion of Ukraine.   During their meeting, Kim Jong Un showed support for Russia`s invasion. Kim even went as far as saying he`ll, "always be standing with Russia."  On the flip side, Putin seems to be hinting that he could assist Kim with his space program and the new technology for the North Korean military.   North Korea has been putting a lot of emphasis on space technology lately, but they`ve had a couple of failed attempts this year to launch a spy   satellite into orbit.  This meeting is a big deal because Putin has been isolated on the international stage due to the ongoing conflict in Ukraine. And he`s in   need of more fire power after 18 months of fighting. Kim Jong Un has been talking about the importance of military satellites to safeguard national   security and secure territory. For more here`s CNN Senior International Correspondent, Matthew Chance. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, the leaders of these two most heavily sanctioned countries in the world met face-to-  face at the Vostochny Cosmodrome in the Russian far east, where Jong Un and Vladimir Putin, um, toured a brand new Russian space, rocket launch   facility. President Putin indicating that Russia would look to help North Korea with its space technology. Later at a formal dinner, Kim voice support for what he said was Russia`s fight against imperialism, a reference to Russia`s standoff with the west   over Ukraine. But in terms of tangible results, frankly, there`s not been much, no agreement signed as far as we know, no joint news conference, the   whole visit carefully choreographed and shrouded in secrecy.  But of course, that doesn`t rule out the possibility that a deal may have been done behind the scenes. Russia desperately needs weapons in ammunition   to sustain its war in Ukraine and North Korea is believed to have vast stock piles. North Korea in turn has an ambitious missile and satellite   launch program, which may well benefit from Russia knowhow. But of course, that kind of transfer may have profound consequences, both on the volatile   Korean Peninsula and on the front lines in Ukraine. Matthew Chance, CNN, Moscow. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Maybe you`ve noticed lately that lots of things seem to be getting a bit more expensive. Maybe the cost of food at the school cafeteria has gone   up, or the amount of money used to spend on a movie ticket in popcorn is now only enough to get you the ticket. Now that`s inflation. The term used   to measure how much prices go up in the United States economy over a certain period of time. U.S. inflation accelerated in August for the second   straight month, pushed up by rising gas prices. Across the country on a month-to-month basis, prices rose 0.6% in August, compared with a 0.2% gain in July. All this will impact the U.S. federal   reserve, which will decide next week if there will be another interest rate hike. A hike means you must pay more on interest charges from your credit   card company for mortgages and even car loans will become more expensive. We`ll hear more now on what to expect. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The U.S. economy is facing a couple of major hurdles, including another possible shutdown of the federal government next month. REP. NANCY MACE, (R) SOUTH CAROLINA: Both sides, both Republicans and Democrats have put us in this place where we have extraordinarily high   inflation, where we`re going to add 18.8 trillion to the debt in the next 10 years. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The United Auto Workers Union could announce a strike on Friday. SHARDEE AKEEM, FORD EMPLOYEE: Since inflation is off the chart, it`s not beneficial to me to be working that or making half what other people are   making or not receiving the benefits that they`re making. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And oil prices, which affect the cost of gas prices, our forecast to stay up through the end of the year. However --  PAUL KRUGMAN, ECONOMIST: People are out there with a lot discretionary consumer spending, travel, hotels, restaurants, all of that is booming. So   people are acting as if they`re in good shape financially, and yet they say, wow, this is a disastrous economy. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia.  In what country would you find the Taurus Mountains? Greece, Turkey, Mongolia, Spain? Located in Southern Turkey, the Taurus mountains are home to some of the world`s deepest caves. Up next, let`s talk about this intense international rescue mission causing quite the brouhaha in one of Turkey`s super deep caves on Tuesday. A   researcher was doing his thing, exploring the cave when he suddenly got really sick and he couldn`t climb out on his own. Here`s CNN International   Correspondent, Jomana Karadsheh with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Shortly before, 1:00 a.m. local time in Turkey, the cave rescue operation of American Caver Mark   Dickey came to an end, a successful one as we saw those images of his stretcher being pulled out of Turkey`s third deepest cave. Dickey appeared   to be smiling, giving thumbs up. We heard from Turkish officials saying that he seemed to be fine and that they were going to get him on a chopper   out of there and move him to Mersin Hospital in Southern Turkey where he will be headed for the medical treatment he needs.  Now, this has been a very, very complex operation. It has lasted days. Mark Dickey, an experienced caver was part of an international and a local   expedition. And when he fell ill at about more than 3000 feet, more than thousand meters from the surface. But over the past few days he had been   stabilized. He was improving. He was walking. He was talking. We even saw a video recorded by -- released by Dickey where he spoke about his condition,   but also explaining that he was still not OK on the inside and that he needed medical treatment.  And this was such a complex operation again, because this is, uh, one of the deepest caves in the world. We`re also talking according to experts   about a cave with very narrow and winding passages. So putting him on a stretcher and getting him out of there, would`ve been very, very difficult.   So they have to look at the different options consulting with doctors to make sure they can get him out of there.  And finally, this operation, this extraction began on Saturday and it involved nearly 200 rescuers from different countries. It was a real   multinational effort to try and get him out of there. And they moved in phases over the past few days. They would move. They would stop, rest a   bit, and then move again until they made it out of that cave. This certainly is going to be good news for the family, friends, colleagues of   Mark Dickey and all those who have been involved in this rescue operation that has brought an end to this ordeal. Jomana Karadsheh, CNN London. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Frank Rubio has been out of this world for over 355 days now. He just smashed the previous record for longest space mission by a U.S. astronaut.   His mission was only supposed to be six months, but his spacecraft spring a leak, leaving him chilling in the international space station since   September of 2022. And he`s not stopping there when he wraps up this mission, he`ll have spent at least 371 days in orbit. He`s on the verge of   becoming the first American to rack up more than a year in microgravity.  Big thanks to the heart of the Rocky Mountains, Mr. Sposado (ph) and his historians at summit in Frisco, Colorado, #YourWordWednesday winners for   brouhaha, a no meaning noisy and over excited reaction to something. Well done. And our CNN 10 YouTube page shout out goes too Weston, Connecticut,   Weston Middle School, rise up. Remember you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10 and I`ll see you tomorrow. END 

Date: 2023-09-15
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up lovely people. Happy Friday, Friyay. Let`s unleash our full potential, take good vibes and lots of love into   this weekend. Make a feel-good Friday. Remember what is within influences what happens without.  I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. And we start with news on Hurricane Lee. On Thursday, this storm was already making quite a scene in Bermuda, whipping   up some serious winds. It looks like this hurricane is taking a Northern route and picking up the pace.  Lee is expected to bring some heavy rain, strong winds and coastal flooding, and it looks like it`s making its way all the way up towards new   England and Canada, and will likely stick around through the weekend.  Hurricane Lee might only affect coastal areas, making landfall somewhere between Northeast main and Nova Scotia in Canada. Hurricane and tropical   storm watches have already been issued for many coastal areas in new England.  We`re not entirely sure what to expect in terms of damage just yet, but we do know that conditions in the ocean like the atmosphere and super warm   water temperatures have been creating greater risk from increased storms this season,. Let`s head to Morocco now where there`s a scientific mystery that if solved might be able to help us predict earthquakes before they happen. Video   taken before Friday`s 6.8 magnitude earthquake in Morocco captured mysterious lights in the nighttime sky. They`re called earthquake lights   and reports of these types of atmospheric illuminations actually date back to Ancient Greece would you believe.  Experts say earthquake lights can appear in different forms and colors. They could be dancing across the sky or look like glowing floating spheres.   They could even appear as flickering flames creeping across the ground. Seismologists and scientists are trying to unlock the mysteries of these   illuminating outbursts. Some experts say that certain crystals in rocks generate electricity when they break during an earthquake.  The hope is that one day we might be able to use these earthquake lights or the electric charge that causes them to help predict major earthquakes   before they happen. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NADA BASHIR, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Sheltering from the sweltering September heat, survivors of Morocco`s earthquake spend   another day coming to terms with a tragedy that has befallen this shaken community.  Temporary shelters for those left homeless by the earthquake have been set up across this region. Many of the tents that you can see here have been   supplied either by the Moroccan government or by local organizations and charities. But the Moroccan government has also requested assistance from   members of the international community. And we`ve seen these international teams on the ground providing support, not only on the search and rescue   front, but also with the humanitarian relief effort. ROBERT NORMAN, UK INTERNATIONAL SEARCH AND RESCUE, COMMAND SUPPORT OFFICER: The immediate priorities for our team is always saving life, following on   from that where we can help medical assistance identify humanitarian needs. So that even when that rescue phase does close, we`ve provided all the   information we can to help humanitarian relief that will follow us. BASHIR: Across the quake zone here in Morocco, there has also been an outpouring of support from the local community, with donations or food,   water, and medication.  The volunteers here tell us they still need more tents and crucially long- term support with the rebuild effort. The government says the reconstruction of homes lost in the disaster is a priority, but for so many   impacted families, there is no telling how long it`ll be before they have a real home to return to. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Let`s talk now about the future of AI or artificial intelligence, the science of making machines that can think like humans while also   processing large amounts of data in ways that humans can`t. Some of the largest leaders in tech high profile CEOs and members of the Senate met   this week in Washington. Why? They were in deep conversation about the future of AI regulations. And they had some serious words of caution about   AI, including the potential impact on humanity, like potentially putting humans out of jobs or what might happen if it`s not used responsibly and   regulated correctly. But it wasn`t all doom and gloom. They also chatted about how AI could be a total game changer in a good way for our future   society. To give us the low down on all this AI drama, here`s CNN Tech Quiz, Brian Fung. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BRIAN FUNG, CNN REPORTER:  There`s broad agreement that government should have some role in regulating AI, but there is still no consensus on how.   That`s the big takeaway from a day long summit on Capitol hill involving some of the wealthiest and most powerful people in the world.  In the meeting, Bill Gates spoke of how AI could help end world hunger. Others talked about its potential to cure cancer. Elon Musk to the meeting   "may go down in history as being very important for the future of civilization." But questions are still swirling about how the us might   approach AI regulation. Does the U.S. need a new federal agency to regulate AI? What about bans on AI and political advertising? How soon could   Congress come up with a comprehensive bill? Many of these questions are still unresolved after Gates, Musk, and others like Mark Zuckerberg   descended on Washington to offer their views.  Meanwhile, officials in the meeting from the entertainment industry and labor and civil rights groups called for protecting workers, writers, and   minorities from some of the harms that AI could cause. Senators coming out of the meeting said most everyone agreed, the United States should remain a   leader in AI development while also trying to protect people. But outside of the meeting room, some lawmakers took issue with how the sessions were   closed to the public. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia.  What family-based TV show first aired in 1969, featuring an opening sequence with a 3x3 grid of cast members looking around at each other?  Family Ties, Family Matters, The Brady Bunch or All In The family? The Brady Bunch, that`s the way to correctly answer this question.  Here`s the story of the home better known as the Brady Bunch House. It`s in studio city, California, the iconic house sold this week for 3.2 million.   The inside was designed by HGTV a few years ago to replicate the original sets used on the show. Pretty cool. It`s like stepping back in time, but   despite the nostalgia, the property actually sold for millions under the asking price. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The iconic Brady Bunch House just sold for a loss. Purchased in 2018, for 3.5 million, HGTV spent 1.9 million renovating it to   replicate the sets from the hit TV sitcom. The updates were part of HGTV is a very Brady renovation series. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  One gigantic problem with the existing house was that it had no space for all the rooms that were on the Brady Bunch set. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Hello. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Just like stepping back in time. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It`s a strange kind of place between fiction and reality. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It`s the Brady`s home. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The 5,140-foot home was listed in May for 5.5 million, but sold for only 3.2 million. A portion of the proceeds will go to turn   up, fight hunger, CNN and HGTV share pair and company Warner Brothers Discovery. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, thanks to all of you out there for the shout out request on our CNN 10 YouTube comments section. Remember whenever our channel hits   800,000 subscribers and we`re close my producer, Jeremy said I can do two shoutouts every show. Today, much love to Dunwoody High School in Georgia, especially the girls flag football team, hitting the YouTube channel all the time. So great   meeting some of you this summer. Rise up, shine bright this weekend y`all remember you are more powerful than, you know. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10.   It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END 

Date: 2023-09-18
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, lovely people. Hope you had an awesome weekend. So good to be back with you. Let`s start this week strong.   Remember complacency is the constant enemy. Let`s learn one thing or do something today that makes us a little better today than we were yesterday.  It`s Constitution week here in the United States. The document that starts with the famous words, we, the people was signed 236 years ago on Sunday.   The Constitution created a charter for the United States as we know it today. Of course, it hasn`t stayed the same since 1787. There have been   various changes or amendments through the years.  In 1791, the first 10 amendments of the constitution were ratified. Forming what is known as the bill of rights. They list specific prohibitions on the   government`s power and guarantee certain individual protections and liberties in the United States like freedom of speech. And that leads us to   pop quiz hotshot.  Since the Bill of Rights, how many additional amendments have been added to the Constitution?  7, 10, 15, or 17? Put your hands up if you`ve said 17. The most recent the 27th amendment was passed in 1992.  More news now on the historic and unprecedented United Auto Workers strike against the big three American automakers, Ford, General Motors and   Stellantis. It`s unprecedented because this is the first time in its history that the Union has struck all three of America`s unionized car   makers.  Union workers are seeking increased wages, benefits, and job protections. The demands come as all three auto makers reported record or near record   profits. The union is trying to recapture many benefits they had been forced to give up more than a decade ago when the companies were cash   starved and on the brink of bankruptcy. Union members say they had reasonably productive talks with Ford on Saturday, but the Union and the three major companies still remain far   apart on wages and benefits.  Ford and General Motors have responded to the strike by threatening layoffs for non-striking workers due to the lack of parts from striking plants.   General Motors says they will lay off up to 2000 workers this week if the strike continues. But the workers walking the picket line, they say that   they`re going to stick it out until they get a deal that suits them. Negotiations were ongoing at the time of this recording. Here`s our Rahel   Solomon with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, this is going to come down to time, ultimately. How economically costly this ultimately is, will   really hinge on how long the strike continues. Now, if it is an extended strike while analysts warn the economic costs will add up. One estimate   from the Anderson Economic Group, estimates that the strike could cost the economy $5 billion if it lasts 10 days.  Now, one thing to consider with that estimate is that, that would`ve been a full strike of UAW 143,000 workers at this point about a 10th of that   figure is actually striking. So keep that in mind, but that estimate does include things like lost pay, losses to manufacturers, but also suppliers.  Now guys, if it feels like there have been more strikes than usual. Yeah, it`s not just your imagination. So what`s behind the increased strike   activity, both here in the U.S. and around the world, to be honest, while I asked our wheat in that he runs the labor program at Cornell and he says   high inflation, a tight labor market, which has workers feeling like they have the upper hand. They can ask for the things that they want. Also   public support has steadily increased for Unions. And also COVID-19 as workers continue to think about the type of work life balance that they   want.  Now, in terms of wages, Auto Workers fall behind the average worker. This is average. According to government data, the average hourly worker for an   Auto Worker is about $27.99. Whereas the average worker around the country makes about $33.82.  Now we should say for the automaker`s part, you know, they say, wait a minute, we have to worry about prices as well, because we have to compete   with the non-union competitors. And so they have to be conscious of prices as well. I mean, that`s what the automakers are saying. Clearly the two   sides are still pretty far apart. It seems at least from what we can tell. But ultimately the damage that could be caused in terms of the economy will   really just depend on how long this strike ultimately takes. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Moving on now to the latest about Hurricane Lee, which was reclassed as a post-tropical cyclone, before it made landfall over the weekend. Lee   hit Canada`s east coast on Saturday with strong wind, heavy rain and flooding. Tens of thousands of people lost power in the storm. It`s the   eighth time since 2016 that a storm in the North Atlantic has reached Category 5 or the highest category for hurricanes.  There have been 10 named storms in the Atlantic since August 20th, breaking the old record for most name storms in the Atlantic between August 20th and   September 16th. Experts say this kind of severe weather could continue to happen more often as oceans warm up and it`s keeping hurricane hunters   busy. CNN`s Gary Tuchman joined a team of these scientists on a flight to document the storm last week. Take a look. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) GARY TUCHMAN, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: The Gulfstream IV is typically a business jet, but this one is reconfigured. And its business is to help   protect lives. These are the hurricane hunters, eight scientists, engineers, pilots. They work for the National Oceanic And Atmospheric   Administration known as NOAA. Paul Flaherty is the Flight Director and a Flight Meteorologist. PAUL FLAHERTY, FLIGHT DIRECTOR & FLIGHT METEOROLOGIST: We want to make sure we`re collecting data in data sparse areas in which there`s currently no   data available, very little data available for the weather models to use, to make forecasts. TUCHMAN (on camera): For this mission, this aircraft flies an altitude between 41,000 and 45,000 feet. It travels around 500 miles per hour. This   is essentially a flying weather station, a weather station that goes to the weather. (Voice-over): For the next eight hours, the men and women of the NOAA Corps will fly in this high-altitude reconnaissance jet above, below, around and   in front of Hurricane Lee. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I think for now we`ll be fine, but --  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yeah, looks like plenty of space to maneuver around things. TUCHMAN: After the jet leaves, Lakeland, Florida skies are clear at this high altitude. You can clearly see storm churn white caps in the ocean. It   doesn`t take long though for the sunshine to disappear. The flight gets turbulent as Hurricane Lee lurks ominously below us. All the while signs is   taking place. This screen shows 34 locations where at two known as a drop sound or sand will be dropped out of the plane. (On camera): So this is the next drop sand. It`s going to be drops. Rebecca Keller, NOAA engineer. What is in the drops? REBECCA KELLER, NOAA ENGINEER: So the drop zone consists of a sensor. And we have a circuit board inside as well as a battery. And the sensor is   picking up humidity, air temperature, pressure, wind direction, and wind speed. TUCHMAN: And about every 10 minutes, another drop sound with a parachute that is deployed is launched to the ground. Along with the sands, the plane   also has radar in its nose, doppler radar in its tail. And two pilots up front flying with a deep sense of purpose. LT. CMDR. DANIELLE VARWIG, NOAA PILOT: I joined the NOAA Corps as did all of my counterparts because we love to serve our country. We care about our   -- the citizens. And so it`s really rewarding to know that I am like right at the front lines and risking my life in order to help the lives of   everyone else that are back home. TUCHMAN: The marathon flight is almost over. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: All right! So that is the last "sonde" of the -- Woohoo, Woohoo indeed. TUCHMAN: And as the plane heads back to Florida out the window. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Looking good. TUCHMAN: A spectacular sunset.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yeah, so we`re out of the storm environment, obviously. This will be just fair-weather cumulus on our way back to   Florida. TUCHMAN: As the plane gets ready to land time for the hurricane hunters to decompress and get mentally ready for more eight-hour trips to come. LT. CMDR. RICK DE TRIQUET, NOAA AIRCRAFT COMMANDER: So yeah, we kind of live up here, spend more time together than we do at home. Go home, sleep,   eat, and repeat, you know, and get back up here, start collecting the data again. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Arizona Saguaro National Park and unidentified creature causing quite the stink on a surveillance camera. What is this? A spiky frizz out hair is   -- is this thing stretching its arms for a hug, doing a dance. Believe it or not. This is actually a spotted skunk upside down doing a handstand. And   apparently if you ever see a skunk doing this, it`s time to say smell you later, dude, because they do handstands as a form of intimidation. And if   that doesn`t work, their next move is to spray you.  Our special shout out today is going to Skyline High School is Scottsboro, Alabama. Go Vikings. Did you know that Vikings had ice skates. Fun fact,   they used animal bones for the bleeds. See you tomorrow my Vikings in Queens. I`m Coy, and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-09-19
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. You are awesome. And we have places to go and things to learn from Africa   to Alaska and few stops in between. Welcome to the best 10 minutes in news.  We start in Libya, the country at the top of Africa. If you`re looking at a map right between Tunisia and Egypt next to the Mediterranean sea. Last   Sunday, Libya was hit by a rare type of storm called a Medicane, a combination of the words Mediterranean and hurricane. And the deadly storm   dumped record setting rain on Libya with more than 16 inches in some places over a 24-hour span. The rain strained two aging dams near the Eastern city   of Derna, which has a population roughly the size of Bend, Oregon, Abilene, Texas, or Allentown, Pennsylvania, both dams burst last week, and water   overwhelmed, entire districts of Derna destroying homes and businesses sweeping them away, or even burying them with mud.  As of this Sunday, the death toll across Libya was all over the place with outlets reporting anywhere from 4,000 to 20,000 people. And that`s because   the damage has been so severe and widespread. And whatever that number is, thousands more are still missing. This is the deadliest flood to hit any   African country in more than a century. Our International Correspondent, Larry Madowo has been following the story and is learning for us the   factors and scale of this disaster. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LARRY MADOWO, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  The Eastern Libya city of Derna, might never be the same, even with the best of efforts to rebuild   the U.N. warning that the catastrophic flooding led to an unprecedented humanitarian crisis there. We will never know the exact number of people   that were killed when Storm Daniel dumped unprecedented levels of water here, busting to dams and entire neighborhoods washing into the sea, into   the Mediterranean. In the absence of any proper coordination between Libya`s two rival governments, ordinary Libyans have been doing what they can, including   donating blood. And they`re also aware of the divided country that they live in. MUSTATA RAJABANI, BLOOD DONOR (through translator):  We feel sorry for those who lost their lives. And we ask God almighty that he take pity on   the others. Unfortunately, we hate to admit that this catastrophe has highlighted the fact that we do not have a state capable of dealing with a   crisis of this scale. MADOWO:  Even though rescue efforts continue. It`s been a week since the flooding happened. So the chances of finding survivors alive is very   limited. Libyan State Media say 891 buildings are completely destroyed there. Another 211 buildings are partially damaged and 398 others   submerged. So this brings to almost 15% of buildings in Derna that were affected by this flooding.  The African Union Chairperson is calling on other African member states, the international community to offer more support because that`s what so   many people need here. At the same time. The U.N. warning that about 40,000 people have been displaced. And as they`re on the move, they are exposed to   landmines and explosive ordinances of war after more than a decade of conflict in the country. So it`s just a mixture of the most terrible   conditions possible. Larry Madowo, CNN Nairobi. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Let`s move now to Central America in the country of Panama, where there`s not enough water in the Panama Canal, the iconic waterway, and   that`s due to an ongoing drought. The canal was built more than 100 years ago and it connects the Pacific ocean to the Atlantic ocean. It`s a   valuable shipping route that saves vessels a lot of time and a long, more dangerous journey down around the Southern tip of south America.  Let`s go to our CNN International Correspondent, Patrick Oppmann, who explains how we might all be affected by the water levels on this 50-mile   route. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PATRICK OPPMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  The Panama Canal is running low on water. A persistent drought caused in part by the El Nino   weather pattern has left water levels dangerously depleted. Now, the global supply chain is under threat as the holiday season approaches.  The 80-kilometer waterway connects the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans and is a vital route for transporting goods, handling an estimated 5% of world   trade. The canal was completed in 1914, revolutionizing how goods were used to supply goods could be transported and further expanded in 2016 to meet   the skyrocketing demands of global commerce. But over the last 20 years, decreasing rainfall has reduced the water level of Panama`s Lake Gatun from   27 meters above sea level to 24 meters.  Canal officials have imposed draft restrictions, forcing ships to lighten their load. A ship`s draft limit is the minimum depth of water it can   safely navigate. And if a ship is carrying too much cargo, it risks getting trapped in the canal. Since May, ships have had to reduce their cargo by as   much as 25%. The Panama Canal Authority has also limited the number of vessels authorized to enter the canal each day. Creating a bottleneck with   some ships waiting as long as 14 days to get through. As of Tuesday, 116 vessels were waiting to pass.  The canal`s administrator warns the number of authorized vessels could decrease further when the drought continues into next year. This has led to   rising freight costs which are likely to continue in the months leading up to both Christmas and the Chinese New Year. The Canal`s administrator has   said the drought could wipe away $200 million in revenue in 2024. And he says they may need to build a new dam or connect the canal to another   nearby lake to keep water flowing. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia.  Can you name the third largest U.S. state with the state motto, Eureka? Is it Texas, Alaska, California, or Montana?  California is your answer here. And Eureka means, I found it. Eureka. The state motto might be used by firefighters in California, quite often now   they fight thousands of wildfires across the state every year. And now thanks to artificial intelligence they might have a better way of finding   those fires before they get out of control. CNN Stephanie Elam has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  In California where wildfires are a constant threat, firefighters want every advantage they can get on a blaze   before it becomes an inferno. SCOTT SLUMPFF, CAL FIRE BATTALION CHIEF:  While I was asleep in bed, my phone dinged. ELAM:  Cal Fire Scott Slumpff got that leg up while testing new technology in July, when he got a text message with a link to this. Video of a fire   that started in the middle of the night, deep in the California wilderness. SLUMPFF:  The dispatch center there was not aware of the fire.  ELAM:  But something else was, artificial intelligence. Cal Fire in partnership with U.C. San Diego`s alert, California program and its network   of more than 1000 cameras across the state is using the technology to recognize a fire early on. STAFF CHIEF PHILIP, FIRE INTELLIGENCE, CAL FIRE:  The next morning that fire would`ve been a fire of significance. ELAM:  Instead, firefighters were dispatched immediately knocking the blaze down before it did major damage. PHILIP:  So the fires that you don`t hear about in the news is the greatest success of this.  ELAM:  These cameras are the new eyes for firefighters. These two position more than 5,000 feet above sea level can see across this massive Southern   California valley. And they`re really adding precision to the spotting of wildfires compared to more traditional ways like this lookout station,   where I`m standing with this new AI technology, they can often spot wildfires more quickly than the human eye can.  (Voice-over): Here`s how it works. Look at this image. Could you spot a fire? Probably not. But notice that red box on the right side, that`s where   artificial intelligence has detected a faint column of smoke. The pilot program works so well that Cal Fire recently expanded it to all 21 of its   dispatch centers where an official will validate the imagery to make sure it is not just dust or clouds. PHILIP:  Our goal as an agency is to keep 95% of our fires at 10 acres or less. So this tool increases our ability to ensure that we`re keeping those   fires small. ELAM:  And the AI is constantly learning, each time a human confirms or corrects what a detects the technology adapts.  (On camera):  Do you think that it`s making a difference and how you`re able to protect the population? SLUMPFF:  Absolutely. ELAM:  This technology won`t replace people, Cal Fire says. SLUMPFF:  Nothing can take the place of the -- the boots on the ground. ELAM:  But can help first responders stop fires before they explode. SLUMPFF:  In my opinion, save lives in property. ELAM: Stephanie Elam, CNN, Riverside County, California (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s 10 out of 10, we finish in Muldoon Alaska where a family of bears had a Eureka moment of their own. They stumbled upon an unattended   crispy cream donut delivery van with a door wide open. So mama bear and her cub went donut diving, 26 packages of donuts getting dominated, despite   workers trying to scare them away. Some advice for you do not try to prevent any bearglaries like this if you see one going down. Now, it`s time for me to be the bearer of good news for some folks in Moorhead, Minnesota. Today`s shout out, goes to Horizon Middle School, you   rock. Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube channel. Let`s all go out and do something to make this world a bit of a better   place today. Even if it`s just making someone`s smile today. I`m Coy and I`ll see you right back here tomorrow. END 

Date: 2023-09-20
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up sunshine? I`m Coy Wire. This is your CNN 10, especially on a #YourWordWednesday. Follow me @coywire on   Instagram, Snapchat, and TikTok, and put your unique vocabulary word and definition in the comment section of my most recent post. And we`ll choose   a winner to work into tomorrow`s show. Let`s go.  We start with the United Nations General Assembly in New York, also known as the UNGA. Every year world leaders and members of the United Nations or   U.N. gather here for an international summit. This is their 78th session with 140 heads of state and government scheduled to attend, including U.S.   President Joe Biden and Ukraine`s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy. This will be Zelenskyy`s first in-person appearance at the summit, since Russia   invaded Ukraine in 2022. The U.N. has 17 big goals known as sustainable development goals. They range from ending poverty and hunger to improving   education, gender equality, and climate action. All those goals and more are on the table this year. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) OMAR JIMENEZ, UNITED NATIONS:  It`s the United Nations meeting place for most of the world`s countries from the most powerful, such as the United   States, China and Russia to the smallest and most vulnerable. The U.N. has been involved in everything from assisting refugees to negotiating peace   among nations. Of all the languages in the world, the U.N. uses six to communicate, (through translation) Arabic, Chinese, English, French,   Russian and Spanish.  In some combination of those six, the U.N. deliberates on global issues. For judicial matters, they look to the international court of justice, the   economic and social council, otherwise known as ECOSOC deals with you guess it, the world`s economic social and environmental issues. The trusteeship   council helps countries become self-governed and independent while the secretariat, another part of the U.N. family tackles day to day issues that   include keeping the press informed. (On camera):  Where I`m standing is one of the more recognizable places in the U.N., the Security Council. It determines threats to international   peace and works to solve those problems right here in this chamber, a gift from Norway in 1952. And on top of that, this council selects the secretary   general. (Voice-over):  Who is then formally appointed by the General Assembly, the main representative body of the U.N. The GA as it`s called meets from   September to December every year, but the world`s problems don`t exactly follow the calendar. The U.N. has to operate year-round. And one of the   ways they`re staying current is through social media and you can follow the organization in any of its official languages. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Also in attendance at this year`s summit, Iran`s President Ebrahim Raisi. He addressed the United Nations General Assembly in New York on   Tuesday after Iran made headlines this week over a prisoner release agreement with the United States. Ahead of the UNGA, Iran released five   Americans who had been detained there some for years. They landed in Washington D.C. yesterday.  In return, the U.S. released five Iranians and unpro (ph) 6 billion of Iranian funds. Republicans, including Senator Lindsay, Graham and Ted Cruz   have criticized this deal. Some say it sets a dangerous precedent. In a statement from the White House, though, Biden said his administration has   always prioritized reuniting wrongfully detained Americans with their loved ones. He also warned Americans not to travel to Iran and said the United   States would continue to impose costs on the country. Pop quiz hotshot. In surfing, to what does the term "hang 10" refer?  Performing a trick that scores 10 points, A 10-second ride, Surfing with at least 10 friends, Hanging 10 toes over the board? Very skilled surfers can walk to the front of a long board and hang all 10 of their toes over the front of the board.  Our CNN series Champions for Change brings you stories about everyday people who are lifting humanity up. My champion is Jesse Billauer. And his   story reminds us that when we don`t give up, we cannot fail. When Jesse was 17, he was named one of the top 100 surfers in the world, just weeks from   turning pro. But one morning he was thrown head first into shallow water and was instantly paralyzed. But he didn`t give up, he helped to create   adaptive surfing, went on to win three world titles, and he created life rolls on the foundation, which helps people discover and rediscover their   potential that lies within. JESSE BILLAUER:  The feeling that I get when I`m on the water, and that`s when I feel the most free. When I was a kid, I fell in love with surfing.   By the time I was a teenager, I was on the right path to becoming a professional surfer and Surfer Magazine named me as like one of the top a   hundred surfers in the country. People, they don`t understand how lucky they are until something like that`s taken away. WIRE:  Take us back to that day, March, 1996? BILLAUER:  And the day it was beautiful, the waves were really good. And I took off on a wave and pulled inside the barrel. And when I came out, the   wave hit me in my back and I didn`t have too much time to put my hands up. It was shallower than I thought. And I hit my head on the -- the bottom. My   whole body just went limp and numb. And I knew I couldn`t move. After that, I woke up in the hospital in this rotating bed.  When the doctor told me that I broke the sixth vertebrae in my neck and that I was paralyzed, I was devastated. I mean, like I`m 17 years old. I`m   in high school. I`m about to be a professional surfer. And now I`m paralyzed. All I wanted to do was just be a kid and be with my friends. And   it was a difficult time because I didn`t know what my life was going to look like. WIRE:  Growing up for me, sports were my life, just like Jesse Billauer. My dream was to make it to the NFL. I made it, but in my sixth season and I   had a really scary moment. I -- I hit this guy and his head came down and slammed right on top of mine. And I got this burning sensation down my   neck. There was this tingling sensation, like pins and needles down my right arm. And I didn`t really have any strength in it. So I needed   surgery. They put a plate, four screws keeping my fifth and sixth vertebrae together.  Fortunately for me, I was able to come back, but not everyone who gets a spinal cord injury can make it out on the other side. The same as they were   before. What happened to Jesse, it probably would`ve completely ruined most of us. But Jesse found out a way to shine. BILLAUER:  And so it took a few years to really get back into the water to surf, because nobody was really doing this before me. Started doing it more   often and figuring it out. WIRE:  And Jesse Billauer is a trailblazer. He`s one of the pioneers of adaptive surfing. The International Surfing Association created the world   para surfing championships in 2015. Jesse`s won it three times. The thing is Jesse not only got himself back up, he`s now helping people around the   world. He started his foundation Life Roll On. BILLAUER:  We take people with various disabilities, surfing skateboarding, and now fishing. We offer these things free to the public. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  For us, having her not in pain all the time and happy as you could see, it gets us through all the hard times. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Because I never thought I could serve. And when I met you, it made a big difference in my life. BILLAUER:  It`s amazing, be able to get back and to see the smiles on their face and the parents` face. And I mean, to me, that`s priceless. At the end   of the day when the lights and the cameras and the people are all back at their house to be paralyzed, lose that independence, that freedom, that`s   the real stuff. That people need to like see. Surfing and all that`s easy. Being paralyzed is hard.  I don`t think our circumstances truly define us because to me as I`m in a wheelchair, I shouldn`t be able to surf, but I look at it like I just do it   in a different way. Figure out the strength with inside you and then you can help other people. I`m Jesse Billauer and I`m a surfer. Finally some baristas at a Starbucks in River Falls, Wisconsin got an alpaca surprise at the drive through window.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) KERRI HARTING, OWNER OF EAGLE EYE FARM:  Yes, I`d like a Pup Cup for my alpaca, please.  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Me, Oliver, the alpaca going viral after his owner, Kerri, drove him to get a treat at Starbucks. He didn`t drink coffee or even lemonade, just   straight whipped cream homie. Of course, the baristas had their phones ready and the videos have gotten millions of views on TikTok.  Now back at Oliver`s Farm, Eagle Eye Farms, you can do yoga with Oliver and his alpacas, you could also behoove you to not try to stretch your next leg   then, though. These alpacas even got introduced to some football being from Wisconsin. I guess we could call them the Green Bay Alpakers. All right. Remember, #YourWordWednesday puts your vocab board in the comment section of my most recent post on Instagram, Snapchat and TikTok   with the school and teacher names too. And I`ll pick one winner to sneak into tomorrow`s show.  Special shout out today goes to the owls of Wake Young Leadership Academy in Raleigh, North Carolina, rise up. Brooklyn, Dr. Terry, you rock. END 

Date: 2023-09-21
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. It`s Thursday. Or as I like to say, happy Friday Eve. We`re almost to the end of the week. So let`s   take in a deep breath and push away all the worries. Let`s lock in and get her done.  Now, if you`ve heard word of falling gas prices being brought it around, don`t believe it just yet, buckle in because our first story might make all   of you drivers out there slam the brakes. You may have noticed that lately gas prices are actually going up as high as $6 per gallon in California   right now. Nationally gas prices hit their highest point of the year this week at $3.88 cents per gallon. On average, that`s according to the AAA   auto club, that means it could cost upwards of 50 bucks to fill her up. Even a small car. That`s surprising because gas prices usually go down   after labor day when the summer driving season ends. Instead, the national average is about 20 cents higher than this time.  Last year, some experts say gas prices are likely to drop again soon. And officials told CNN last week that the White House is taking a wait and see   approach for now. So what makes gas prices go up and what are you actually paying for at the pump? CNN Producer, Jon Sarlin has the answers. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JON SARLIN, CNN PRODUCER:  What`s in a number specifically that number? The number everyone can stop noticing these days. Well, nationally right now,   the price of gas as we`re filming this is $4.30 cents a gallon. Here in California, where we`re filming this it`s even higher. The highest in the   country. Right now it`s $5.70 cents a gallon. So what goes in a gallon of gas?  Let`s break it down. Here in California, they publish a breakdown of what actually goes in the cost of a gallon of gas. So we`re -- we`re going to   focus on them and they use $5.19 cents a gallon for this. So those are the numbers that we`re going to be using. First up, taxes. There`s local, state   and federal, and there`s a wide variance in state taxes. The median national excise tax is just over 25 cents a gallon while the lowest is   Alaska. It`s 8 cents. But here in California, it`s $0.51 cents a gallon.  Those costs go to things like maintaining roads and infrastructure. Then you have other local state taxes and fees that adds on and another $0.13   cents. And then there`s the national gas tax that adds $0.184 cents per gallon. And this number actually hasn`t changed in decades. So across state   houses and federal government, people are calling for a gas tax holiday to help keep the price of gas lower.  But others are arguing that no, this is too important. A revenue source to come, then it on $0.36 cents for the distribution, marketing and profits of   the gas stations. That money goes towards things like rent, wages, utilities, the cost of the pump, insurance, advertising, and then the gas   station`s profit. All that in $0.36 cents.  Then there`s the cost of refining the gas. That adds $1.12 cents per gallon. That includes refining the gas, also transporting it and the   profits for those companies. Then we get to the biggest piece of the pie, the cost of crude oil. Right now that adds $2.87 cents per gallon.  Now, this is the largest and most volatile part is what makes up a gallon of gas. When you see the price of gas going up, you can count on the cost   of crude oil, having just gone up as well. All of those factors go into what you pay at the pump. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Now, it`s not just pain at the pump. The U.S. faces economic headwinds, amid nationwide strikes, and those high fuel prices could hurt   other sectors too. Here`s CNN`s John Laurence to break it all down. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DAVID BLANCHFLOWER, ECONOMICS PROFESSOR, DARTMOUTH COLLEGE:  People are running out of the excess savings that they had. Though -- and banking,   sectored loan growth is slowed. JOHN LAURENCE, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  By anyone`s yardstick, the U.S. economy is facing a few financial hurdles. BOBBY BRADLE, FARMER:  Input cost or through the ceiling. My risk exposure is through the ceiling. It`s -- it`s a risky, scary time. LAURENCE:  First, there`s the United Auto Worker strike, which may soon expand. SHAWN FAIN, UAW PRESIDENT:  If we don`t make serious progress by noon on Friday, September 22nd more locals will be called on to stand up and join   the strike. LAURENCE:  The writer strike in Hollywood is also ongoing. AAA says gas prices are reaching record levels, affecting everyone from commuters to   farmers. BRADLE:  Last year, we put out 31,000 in few. I`m scared to even imagine what it`s going to be this year. LAURENCE:  New home building in the U.S. collapsed 11% in August, according to the census bureau. And to top it off Washington, D.C. has less than two   weeks to prevent the government from being forced to close its stores. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  It`s about time for our Champions for Change. I`m going to run like our examples for today. A group reaching out to youth, finding ways to   help, including teaching values like expressing yourself, Soul Food Cypher. That`s the name, whole group rhyming (ph), that`s the game. And with   positive influence there in schools rocking with students, creating safe spaces, talking life by using music, beats of play, jams go hard. Let their   tracks tell, meet today`s chance with our Victor Blackwell. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You the say they`re rapping, embracing their freestyle and see just how it happens.  VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN HOST:  So, I chose this story, first, because I love the art form. I love the music. Hip-hop and rap had been the soundtrack of   my teen years, my 20s, 30s and now 40s too. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Call me Gitzen (ph) oh like hell boy. BLACKWELL:  And often when we see these ciphers or we see or hear hip-hop or rap people assume that it`s negative. But it these ciphers, that`s not   what we see. What we see is people telling their truths and sometimes they are difficult, but these are loving spaces. (MUSIC) BLACKWELL:  Alex, also know Cost One, creates this safe place where people feel comfortable to talk about what is happening in their lives and where   they want to go. It`s aspirational as well. (On camera):  Tell me about how you got not just loving the cipher, loving hip-hop but doing something with it? Where did that start? ALEX COLE ACOSTA, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, SOUL FOOD CYPHER:  I realize that there was a magic there. By design, ciphers are femoral. They pop up and   then they dissipate. Why not create a permanent cipher? So, I brough some of my best friends together and we created Soul Food Cypher. We are an organization that has been around for 11 years and we look to showcase the positive elements of hip-hop culture through our cipher events   and also our workshops and performances as well. So, a lot of times rap music, especially, popular mainstream, et cetera, et cetera. So, why is the lyrical content important? It`s important that we   change that narrative. BLACKWELL:  Outside of the monthly ciphers, Soul Food Cypher goes into schools. And this is the part that I think is the most fantastic. What I`ve   learned also from some of the instructors is that it helps them grow as well. BUNDUKE, TEACHING ARTIST, SOUL FOOD CYPHER:  As we come through the curriculum and I`m teaching them and allowing them to express these gifts   that are already inside of them, they get this feeling and it builds a connection, it builds a bond. They`ll share some things that`s like crazy.   And it`s like, dang, that`s what you`re going through at home? You know, and it`s like, oh, can you come to my soccer game? Nobody comes to my   soccer game. Bro. I used to be that kid. Like that truck is crazy to me, man. So, I`m like, I got to come back. BLACKWELL:  You get, obviously, a lot out of it as much as you give to these students. Speak to the question of why it`s important to pass the art   form to the next generation. ACOSTA:  We`re using English language in order be able to inspire, influence. Because sometimes our voices only is the only thing we do that.   But then you`re reminded by Instructor Bunduke, Enan (ph), Breathless (ph), Soul Food Cypher that you have a power and that your voice matters. We are building community and we`ve done it before between people, and it`s a very, very powerful thing to have like hip-hop church. You`re going to   see love and you`re going to see respect, knowledge, joy, you`re going to smile. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Cheese Louise. Did you hear about the champion chip in England? Not Joe average snack plate. Check out this giant chip, y`all. So big, it was   dipped by a helicopter into an even bigger pile of cheese. Doritos, pulling off a stunt that snacked them the new record for world`s longest cheese   stretch, 49-feet. If you love nachos, I can`t imagine it can get much cheddar than this.  (Foreign language). Congrats to Damu and Mr. Watson Nabisushi`s (ph) class in Higashi Katsu Chika (ph) High School in Japan. You submitted the winner   for #YourWordWednesday for bruit, a verb, meaning to spread or report rumors widely. Well done. And today`s special shoutout is going to Chicopee, Massachusetts.  The bulldog of Edward Bellamy Middle School. We see you. Fun fact, a bulldog is also the mascot up United States, Marine Corps, Chesty XVI. Not only is he, the official mascot, Chesty was also promoted   to private first-class last year.  I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. And I`ll see you tomorrow. END 

Date: 2023-09-22
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. Happy Friday, Friyay. Tomorrow is the first official day of fall. The Autumn Equinox. The Equinox   happens once in the fall and once in the spring. And it marks the only days where there is nearly the same amount of daylight and darkness at all   latitudes. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. And on this penultimate day of fall let`s tackle today`s headlines. We start with a troubling new study out of Stanford   University, where researchers found that wildfire smoke is undoing progress toward cleaner air across America. Air pollution from wildfire smoke can   spread for miles like this summer when smoke from Canada drifted into the U.S. turning skies in New York City, yellow. And wildfire smoke is a type of particle pollution or PM2.5 because the particulates are so tiny. They can sneak past our body`s natural defenses   and get into our system. If they get into your lungs and bloodstream, they could trigger asthma attacks or even heart attacks in some people. And   long-term exposure can lead to deadly diseases taking months or even years off of your life.  PM2.5 had become less concentrated in recent decades. Thanks to air quality improvement measures. But this new study shows that progress has been   slowed or even reversed in 35 states because of wildfire smoke. Here`s CNN`s Chief Medical Correspondent, Dr. Sanjay Gupta with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT:  Look around you, take a breath. What do you notice? It`s hard to imagine, but even air that looks   and feels clean could still be harmful. Air pollution is when anything chemical, physical or biological changes the atmosphere.  Now, the main culprit of air pollution has long been fossil fuels, but wildfires like the ones that we`ve been seeing a lot of lately are   increasingly impacting our air quality. In fact, as things stand now, according to the World Health Organization, nearly all of us breathe air   that is polluted.  What you might notice again, even if the air seems OK, our symptoms like eye, nose or throat irritation, wheezing, coughing, headaches, fatigue,   dizziness, and one type of air pollution called particle pollution or PM2.5 can be especially dangerous. And that`s because of how tiny the particles   are. These particles can be 1/20th, the width of a human hair, which means they can travel past your body`s usual defenses.  Now, I know you hear this and a lot of this might worry you, but there are also ways that you can protect yourself. First of all, just like you might   check the weather before you leave the house, you should also check your air quality.  In fact, many countries now have tools where they monitor the air quality index, something known as AQI. The United Nations also has a live air   pollution exposure calculator. So when the air quality is bad, you know that you should start staying indoors if you can. If you do have to go   outside, try to do activities where you`re not breathing as hard, go for a walk instead of a run. The extra careful when it`s hot, outside is higher   temperatures can increase particle pollution, but the big picture for all of us pay attention to the air around you. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. Which of these pro sports league has the biggest viewership? Major League Baseball, National Basketball Association, National Football League, or Major League Soccer? If you set NFL puts your hands up, 82 of the top 100 most watched TV programs last year were NFL games.  Today, we are introducing a new segment where we learn lessons from a leader. We`re flying with the Atlanta Falcons and Grady Jarrett today. He`s   a two-time pro bowler on the field and a shining light in the community as well. He`s sharing some of his secrets to success that can help all of us,   no matter what career path we may pursue.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Hello, lovely people. We`re here at the home of the Atlanta Falcons with the heartbeat and leader of the team, Grady Jarrett. He has worked   himself into being a pro bowler and one of the best defensive lineman in the NFL. Thanks for spending some time.  GRADY JARRETT, ATLANTA FALCONS:  Yes, sir.  WIRE:  With our CNN 10 family today, sharing some tips and tactics for achieving success in life. What inspires you, Grady? What motivates you? JARRETT:  Man, really, you know, especially at this point, man, just being the best I can be, you know, and then that`s whatever aspect, anything I   decide to get involved in. I want to be the best that I can be. And I feel like if I`m the best that I can be. I can be one of the best to do it. So I   mean, as a player, you know, going out emptying to take every day, putting into work, whether it`s physical, mental, you know, on the recovery side of   things, just doing the things that`s -- when it`s time to go, I`m ready to go. WIRE:  Now things in life rarely go straight.  JARRETT:  Yeah.  WIRE:  How important do you think adversity is?  JARRETT:  Mm-hmm. WIRE:  In shaping us as people? JARRETT:  Man, adversity is inevitable. You know, it`s going to come, but it`s how you handle it, you know? When things get hard that shows your true   character, you know, it`s easy for you to be excited when things are going your way. When you know the outcome is going to be good and your favor, you   just got to be ready for when adversity comes and to keep conquering and keep conquering. That`s what life about. WIRE:  Now for the athletes out there who may be going through some tough times.  JARRETT:  Yeah.  WIRE:  Maybe facing a setback, an injury, a big loss.  JARRETT:  Mm-hmm. WIRE:  What advice would you have for them? JARRETT:  At the end of the day, all you can do is control where you`re at right now and give your best foot forward every day. You know what I`m   saying? So when you do overcome whatever you`re going through, whether it`s an injury and you miss some time, now you back on the field. Now you can   appreciate them hard days when they come and you don`t take it for granted because you know what it`s like to not have.  I think sometimes people, we`re so hard on ourself like thinking, you know, we should always feel happy. It`s always feel happy. Always supposed to be   good, but it`s OK to be, you know, down sometimes, sad. Like that`ll make you a weak person that don`t make or like it`s something wrong with you or   something like that. Like you`re human.  But at the end of the day, those time makes our higher times better, you know? Because you got to know like, you know, pain is inevitable. Things   not going your way is inevitable. But it`s always about how you react to it and overcome it. You know, you got to have that undeniable unstoppable   mindset. WIRE:  That is such a powerful point, especially in today`s world of social media.  JARRETT:  Yeah. WIRE:  When you look and you`re scrolling through these feeds and --  JARRETT:  Yeah, you always see everybody highlights. WIRE:  Look and feel happy all the time.  JARRETT:  Mm-hmm. WIRE:  That`s not real life.  JARRETT:  Yeah. It`s not real life. And that`s OK that it`s not real life. You know what I`m saying, is I think when you look at it, like it`s OK not   for everything to be OK.  WIRE:  Yeah. JARRETT:  You know? And then you won`t be as hard as yourself or like feeling like, you know, maybe you`ll get so far left behind in life doing   certain things or you got to run -- you got to run your race at -- at your pace.  WIRE:  Now for those folks out there who are striving to be great, is there a motto or mantra that you`ve learned along the way that helps drive you   towards your full potential? JARRETT:  I want to do what I can while I can. So when I cannot, I will not wish I would have when I could have. And all that mean to me is just don`t   have any regrets. WIRE:  All right. One big lesson, I`m reminded of by Grady is no matter how famous or successful you get, stay humble, stay hungry, never get too big   for your britches. Keep shining Grady. Thanks for spending time with our CNN 10 tribe today. I`m Coy Wire. JARRETT:  And I`m Grady Jarrett. WIRE:  And we are CNN 10. JARRETT:  CNN 10. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, a tale of mischief, a Lemur tale, high tailing it from the po-po. And this lemur, he likes to move it,   move it. Look at him, go leading police on a chase in Springfield, Missouri. It was probably thinking lemur alone, dudes. I`m finally free.   Its owners reported that it escaped. And with the help of two bystanders and a towel, the cops finally caught the ring-tailed runaway, no problem   lemur. They turned it over to a wildlife rescue agency. A real-life lemurgency averted.  Today`s shoutout goes to, it`s Orby the owl and the rest of the Brooklyn Prospect Charter School in Brooklyn, New York, we hope you and everyone   watching around the world have an awesome weekend. I`m Coy Wire. And remember you are more powerful than you know. It`s been a blessing to spend   this week with you. END     

Date: 2023-09-25
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello lovely people. Happy Monday. I hope you had an awesome weekend. Today is the holiest day of the year in Judaism. Yom   Kippur, the Day of Atonement. It began sundown Sunday and it ends tonight, which is why many schools are closed today. For those of you who observe   Yom Kippur, we hope you had a meaningful fast.  All right, summer has ended officially here in the United States, but in Australia it`s early spring and it`s unseasonably warm. Australia`s Bureau   of Meteorology announced the arrival of El Nino, a natural weather pattern that tends to bring hot and dry conditions to the country. Experts worry   that the combination of El Nino and the underlying global heating spells a summer of extreme heat and fire.  Australia suffered its worst fires in 2019 and 2020, burning millions of acres, including homes and natural habitats. The fire season down under   usually starts in October and ends around March. It`s a dangerous, sometimes deadly time for people and wildlife.  Already this year, bushfires have hit parts of the country and firefighters are working hard to keep up with the help of volunteer crews. There are   tens of thousands of volunteer firefighters across Australia, especially in rural areas. We`re about to join two of them now.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LAUREN WILSON, ADVANCE FIREFIGHTER, OAKS RURAL FIRE BRIGADE HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONAL:  When I tell people I`m a firefighter, I actually get a lot   of mixed reactions. Oh, you do all that for free? What makes you do that? It really does spark a lot of curiosity in people. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Australia battles some of the largest and hottest wildfires on the planet. The fire season in Australia typically runs from   October until the end of March, when temperatures are at their highest. Most of the firefighting is conducted by the Rural Fire Service, a   volunteer force separate to state emergency services. The New South Wales Rural Fire Service has more than 70,000 members. ANDREW HAIN, SENIOR DEPUTY CAPTAIN, PICTON RURAL FIRE BRIGADE INTERNATIONAL FLIGHT PLANNER:  We were founded in 1939 by local farmers and local   residents that needed a firefighting service in the area, and it was a bunch of guys with old trucks or trailers. Now we`re sitting here in a   million dollar plus facility with these trucks that are basically a multi- tool. We do flood work in this. We do fires, car accidents, house fires. WILSON:  We`re coming into a family of a long line of firefighters. I believe there is that little bit of pressure. I can remember when I first   told my father-in-law that I had joined. The first thing he said to me was, as long as you can operate a pump, you`ll be fine. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: As a volunteer service, recruits come from all walks of life and require intense training before being deployed. HAIN:  It`s a huge amount of effort. A lot of hours go into training a new recruit. It`s not for bragging rights, it`s because they`ve got to go out   on the truck with you. You need to be able to work with everybody from different backgrounds. You know, people that work in corporate, people that   work in construction, you`d name it. We`ve probably got it. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (Inaudible) they`ve come Picton 1 blue. HAIN:  The common thing is this desire to help people. So you`ve got to be willing to give your time to someone else for a thank you. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  In 2019 and 2020, what became known as the Black Summer Fires burned 10.3 million land across the country. HAIN:  We were tasked to go into property protection, but the house was in a spot that was very difficult to defend. One road in, one road out. But   then you walk around this house and you look in the back window and it is a carbon copy of my kids bedroom. There`s Lego all over the floor, there`s   posters on the wall. This family have literally bundled everything they can into the car and they`ve left. They don`t know that there`s someone there   to look after their house, but you staying there and maybe putting in that extra time and that extra work is going to be the reason they have a house   to come back to. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The deadly fires claimed 33 lives, including nine firefighters. More than 3000 homes were destroyed. The house Andrew and his   crew protected was one of 14,000 saved in New South Wales.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  10 second trivia, which industry is behind at least 232 million tons of emissions that warm our planet every year?  Oil and gas, transportation, plastic, or tourism?  The plastic industry is your answer here, and it`s responsible for the same amount of emissions on average as 50 million cars according to the EPA.  All right, if you clicked into CNN 10 last week, you`ll remember it was a big week for the United Nations. The General Assembly held its annual   summit in New York. While they were in the city, world leaders also gathered for a one-day conference about the climate crisis, the Climate   Ambition Summit. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ANTONIO GUTERRES, SECRETARY-GENERAL, UNITED NATIONS:  Sweltering temperatures spawning disease, and thousands fleeing in fear as historic   fires rage.  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  This is U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres. He kicked off the conference with a special sobering speech. Guterres called on developed   countries to reach net zero emissions by 2040. What that means is removing at least the same amount of planet warming pollution from the atmosphere as   those countries produce. He also asked countries to commit to timelines to phase out fossil fuel emissions. Significantly increase financial help so   that low-and middle-income countries can move to clean energy and invest in climate resilience measures to better cope with increasingly severe extreme   weather events. But you don`t need to be a world leader in New York to help our planet. Some solutions start right at home.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Reduce, reuse, recycle.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Recycling is important.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Reduce, reuse, recycle. These three green habits have been part of our daily lives since the 1970s.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Recycle, we do.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The power is yours.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  But it seems like many of us are still confused by one of these elements. A report from one NGOs says more than half of   household recyclables end up in the trash. Think you know the rules pretty well?  What about this piece of cardboard? Nope. Does Finnish jam jar? Wrong again. This greasy pizza box? Yes and no. This one`s tricky. Some local   authorities accept this for recycling but others don`t because they count grease as food contamination.  So it`s not as simple as you might think. All these items are made from materials that can be recycled but there`s a few golden rules to remember.   If an item has food residue on it, then it can`t go into the recycling, rinsed at first. It`s the same for mixed materials like sticky tape on   cardboard. You should remove it before you recycle.  When something`s thrown into recycling that shouldn`t be there, it can contaminate the entire system. This recycling plant in East London sorts   more than 400 tons of waste a day.  DAVID RUMBLE, STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT, BYWATERS:  Contamination is where in the dry mix recycling there are things that should just not be in there   like food waste for instance, electrical equipment. Food waste will just contaminate the other materials in the recycling, the paper and the   cardboard and make it useless. But the other items, they can obviously just cause blockages within the complex machinery.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Luckily, there`s a couple of handy tips to help you make the right decisions. So the first is the scrunch test for things like   crisp packets or wrapping paper, which are often mixed with other materials. If you crush it in your hand and it stays scrunched, it`s   probably recyclable. If it starts to open, it probably needs to go in the trash. If you can tip the item upside down, maybe even over your head, and   nothing comes out, you`re good. If not, rinse it again.  With so many symbols, rules and regulations that not only differ country to country but region to region, it`s not surprising that we often get   confused.  RUMBLE:  There`s a lot of confusion about recycling because our industry is constantly changing.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Marathons are tough. Running 26.2 miles takes a lot of training, heart and determination. Courtney Rich from Salt Lake City, Utah was   nearing the end of the race, but her legs started giving out. She started crying because she worried that she was going to disappoint her kids, she   said.  Well, she was totally re-energized when her 10-year -old daughter Avery jumped in to help her finish the race.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AVERY RICH:  In my head, I was thinking, I love my mom and I`m doing this for my mom and she needs it, so I have to do this.  COURTNEY RICH:  As soon as I caught Avery`s hand in that moment, like any pain that I had in my legs, it felt like it disappeared.  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  My goodness, poet and playwright Johann Wolfgang von Goethe once said, magic is believing in yourself and if you can make that happen, you   can make anything happen. Well, sometimes we just need someone else to believe in us too. And you know what? I believe in all of you.  Today`s shout out goes to the Bearcats, Mr. Bingham`s class at Burlingame Junior High in Burlingame, Kansas. Rise up. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN   10. END 

Date: 2023-09-26
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello sunshine. It`s Tuesday, September 26th. Let`s start with a shout out to all of our teachers out there today. Thank   you for uplifting, informing and inspiring all of us. Students go on and give a fist bump, a handshake, or a high five to your teacher today. Let   them know you appreciate them.  Welcome to the best 10 minutes in news, where I give you the, what, letting you decide what to think. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10.  And we start with the historic writer`s strike after 146 days. The Writers Guild of America or WGA has reached a tentative agreement after marathon   negotiations with the major film and television companies. This should help pave the way to end this historic work stoppage for the writers, at least.   As for the actors union, well, it represents about 160,000 actors, and they`re still on strike. Some shows could be back up and running soon, but   as for some of your favorites, well, CNN Media Critic, Brian Lowry has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN ANCHOR:  When is Hollywood going to be able to get back to work? What productions will return and what can`t return because the   actors of course are still on strike? BRIAN LOWRY, CNN MEDIA CRITIC:  Right, this is going to happen in stages. So, some of the talk shows, which we`re already talking about coming back,   without writers will be back up and running fairly quickly. Things like Drew Barrymore Show variety is reporting that the late-night shows,   Colbert, Kimmel, Fallon could be back up and running in early October. And then it`s going to be a matter of time, you`re going to need the actors, the actors will likely follow the template that the writers   negotiated, but they have some issues that are unique to them. So the writers will have -- the actors will have to get their deal done. I think   before you get wholesale scripted production pack to work, it`s going to be several weeks, and then you start to run into the holidays. So we really   don`t know exactly. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. Which band has the longest running fan club?  Rolling Stones, Nirvana, Queen, or U2? At least for the world record says it`s the band Queen that has the longest official club. It started in 1970 and still going strong. We will, we will   rock you now with some space news with quite the rock band connection. NASA successfully landed samples from the surface of an asteroid back here on   earth. The samples originally came from the asteroid Bennu and were collected back in 2020 by the OSIRIS-REx spacecraft while on a continuing   mission to explore new asteroids. NASA will share more details about the sample on October 11th.  Now, what does Queen song, "we are the champions" have to do with all this, my friends? Well, the guitarist for the classic rock band, Brian May is an   astrophysicist and a team member for mission OSIRIS-REx. That stands for "Origins, Spectral Interpretation, Resource Identification, Security-  Regolith Explorer." CNN International Correspondent, Michael Holmes will now come at us with some more meteor details about this story. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) HOLMES:  More than seven years ago, NASA sent out on a mission to visit an asteroid, collect samples and returned them to earth. It took more than two   years for OSIRIS-REx to reach the asteroid named Bennu, which is nearly 500 meters in diameter, roughly the height of the empire state building. It   circled Bennu for more than two years mapping and studying its rough terrain. Then in a brief touchdown in 2020, when the spacecraft attempted   to extract rock samples from Bennu something unexpected happened. As the spacecraft swooped in to gather some samples, it landed with such force that it set off an explosion of loose materials. The asteroid surface   was softer and looser than expected. Then after collecting rock materials from the asteroid, OSIRIS-REx departed Bennu in 2021, and has since been on   its way back to earth. Scientists believe that carbon rich asteroids like Bennu could hold the answers to the mysteries of the origin and formation of the earth and the   solar system. NASA says the asteroid holds the leftover materials from 4.5 billion years ago back when the solar system was first forming.  The spacecraft already found traces of water embedded within Bennu`s rocky surface in 2018. So NASA scientists say the samples could take us back to   the dawn of the solar system. DANTE LAURETTA, OSIRIS-REX PRINCIPAL INVESTIGATOR, UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA:  And we believe that we`re, we`re bringing back that kind of material,   literally, maybe representatives of the seeds of life that these asteroids delivered at the beginning of our planet that led to this amazing   biosphere, biological evolution and to us being here today, to look back on that amazing history. HOLMES: But the journey isn`t over yet for the mothership ship of OSIRIS- REx renamed, as OSIRIS-APEX, the spacecraft will embark on its next mission to chase down and investigate an asteroid named Apophis. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AMANDA DAVIES, SPORTS ANCHOR, CNN INTERNATIONAL:  Cristiano Ronaldo, Neymar, and Karim Benzema, some of the games` biggest names now playing   their football in the league that until last year, many internationally had never heard of the Saudi Pro League. But why is it happening?  Barcelona`s President Joan Laporta has claimed there are no sporting reasons for players to make the switch to Saudi. The SPL is a league   without the traditional history playing prestige or status behind its silverware. According to stats company, Opta is a league ranked only 36   best in the world.  When then 37-year-old Cristiano Ronaldo moved to Al Nassr, there were suggestions he saw it as something of a new luxurious retirement   destination. But he says he is determined to help it become one of the best domestic competitions in the world. And the arrival of the likes of Neymar,   Benzema, Ruben Neves, and Roberto Firmino is a sure sign of intent. Saudi Arabia has the money to sign any player it wants if the players want to   move there. It`s a league without the financial fair play regulations imposed on European clubs with reports of Ronaldo, Neymar, and Benzema   earning well over a hundred million dollars a year. Previously clubs in the Saudi league have been owned by the country`s Ministry of Sport, but recently there`s been a move to privatize, several   of them as part of a government initiative, the Saudi Sovereign Wealth Fund known as the Public Investment Fund or PIF has taken control of the leagues   for most powerful teams, Al Nassr, Al-Ittihad, Al-Hilal, and Al-Ahli. Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman is chair of the PIF, which has an estimated value of more than $776 billion in assets, according to its most   recent filing. Critics like human rights watch and amnesty international have accused Saudi Arabia of a calculated sports washing campaign and   focusing on football to, "obscure its extremely poor human rights record and its anti-LGBTQ plus stance."  But Saudi is a country that says it`s been looking to diversify its economy away from oil and has seen the value of sport, particularly with its   benefits of attracting new tourism and keeping a relatively young population, happy in an interview with Fox News, Prince bin Salman said he   doesn`t care if people call what the country is doing sportswashing, as long as it grows his GDP.  And attracting players is just the start. If this is about putting Saudi Arabia on the map, there`s no better way of doing that. Then playing hosts   to the biggest and best sporting event on the planet. A World Cup bid is reportedly expected for 2034. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Let me know if you`ve heard this fantastic story, getting a 10 out of 10. It`s official, a lungfish named Methuselah has garnered the record   for the oldest living fish in captivity. This scaly one was brought to San Francisco`s Steinhardt aquarium in 1938 and researchers say Methuselah   could be a centenarian, that`s 100 years old. And get this, caretakers at the aquarium, say Methuselah likes belly rubs. Fisher`s smart because they   swim in schools.  Thanks for tuna in today. My so sophisticated friends, especially my phenomenal or feathery friends, rather, in Stanford, Kentucky Eagles of   Lincoln County Middle School, this is your moment. So own it. Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube channel for your shout out   today, shine bright y`all. You never know when or how, but you can be the light that someone needs today.  I`m Coy. I like the fish, but spelled differently and I`ll see you tomorrow. END 

Date: 2023-09-27
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, sunshine. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. And we are pumped for #YourWordWednesday. Follow me @coywire on Instagram,   Snapchat, and TikTok, and put your unique vocabulary word and definition in the comment section of my most recent post. And we will choose a winner to   sneak into tomorrow`s show.  We start by heading to Azerbaijan where there is quite a bit of unrest. The country sits between Iran and Russia and it`s home to a region called   Nagorno-Karabakh and Armenian breakaway region that sits inside of Azerbaijan. This region has been the cause of years of unrest and war, and   it was in this region over the weekend that Azerbaijan launched a 24-hour assault leading to more than 13,000 people fleeing west back into the   country of Armenia.  There is currently a ceasefire brokered by Russia, but only after an explosion at a gas station inside Nagorno-Karabakh, which injured at least   200 people. Our Becky Anderson has more about the region`s current conflict. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BECKY ANDERSON, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  A mass exodus raising fears for Armenia of ethnic cleansing by Azerbaijan, a charge Baku   staunchly denies. So far, thousands of ethnic Armenians have fled the disputed territory of Nagorno-Karabakh into Armenia, a tragic journey   they`ve become all too familiar with. SVETLANA HARAPETYAN, NAGORNO-KARABAKH RESIDENT (through translator): We`ve had three wars, three times we left and came back. And now we, I don`t   know. ANDERSON (voice-over): Last week, Azerbaijan forced the surrender of ethnic Armenian fighters in the breakaway disputed region, closing a major chapter   in a conflict that has simmered for decades. But like every war, the horrors don`t stop when the fighting abates. Although internationally   recognized as part of Azerbaijan, Nagorno-Karabakh is home to about 120 thousand ethnic Armenians who make up the majority of the population. Over the last three decades, the two countries have fought intense wars over the enclave, with a larger, more powerful Azerbaijani military ceasing   increased territory. Russia, the traditional power breaker, says it`s been delivering aid to the region`s capital, Stepanakert, and that its   peacekeepers on the ground will help escort civilians fleeing to Armenia. But despite Moscow`s presence, Nagorno-Karabakh has been under a blockade   for nine months. Azerbaijan-backed forces blockading the Lachin Corridor, the only road connecting Armenia to the region. Preventing the import of food and aid and   separating families and loved ones. On Saturday, just days after the cease- fire was signed, the first convoy of humanitarian aid enter the region from the International Red Cross. Its members also carrying out medical   evacuations.  There are still fears aid isn`t reaching those who need it most, with thousands here having been surviving with little to no food and fuel for   close to a year.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia.  What`s the longest river in the world? The Nile River, Amazon River, Yangtze River, or Mississippi River.  There`s no denying it, the Nile isn`t just a river in Africa. It`s also the longest in the world at 4,160 miles flowing right into the Mediterranean   sea.  This flows right into our next story. The mighty Mississippi River is looking more like the minuscule Mississippi. In the Crescent City of new   Orleans officials are saying that salt water from the Gulf of Mexico is threatening drinking water there. And in the surrounding region of Southern   Louisiana.  How did this water battle begin? Well where river and ocean meet the Mississippi is normally mighty enough to force the salt water to stay put   out in the Gulf, but experts predict the Mississippi will reach historic lows over the next several weeks after this summer`s lower than average   rainfall in the Midwest and a blistering heat wave.  Well, the U.S. army Corps of Engineers are coming to help to battle the ocean water from creeping up the river. They`re building a levy and they`re   barging in up to 36 million gallons of fresh water every day into area facilities to help supply people with drinking water.  Now it is officially fall here in the United States, but we can already get an idea of what winter might look like. Let`s go now to our CNN   Meteorologist Derek Van Dam. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DEREK VAN DAM, CNN WEATHER ANCHOR:  You`ve probably heard about El Nino, a natural climate pattern that typically occurs every two to seven years,   bringing warmer than average sea surface temperatures to the Pacific Ocean. And consequently has a major influence on weather across the globe.  So what should the U.S. expect this fall? Some forecasts indicate the possibility of abnormal dryness in the Northwest and Midwest and weather   than normal conditions in the Southeast.  Historically the wind shear produced by El Nino has meant fewer hurricanes for the Atlantic. Wind shear is the upper-level winds that tend to   dissipate storm growth. However, warms fuel tropical storms. And this season ocean temperatures have hit record highs.  Therefore, despite the Atlantic nearing the peak of hurricane season, hurricane activity is forecast to remain high until mid-October ending in   late November. During a typical El Nino winter, the U.S. experiences a cooler than average south at a warmer than average north. It also has the   most influence over precipitation in the us during the cool months often resulting in wetter than average conditions across the Southern tier from   the Southwest to the Southeast. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next up, we have the "incredible" story of an artist from New York city who grew up on welfare and food stamps, but spent years fine tuning   his craft. And now after becoming one of the most followed visual artists on social media, he`s also getting his first solo exhibit and in art   gallery, meet Devon Rodriguez. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DEVON RODRIGUEZ, ARTIST (voice-over):  I grew up in New York and I`ve been taking the subway since I was a child. You could see anything and   everything on the subway. You could have a homeless person next to a millionaire and you could have, you know, somebody with a fully tattooed   face next to like a conservative guy. And to me, that`s beautiful. These are like the people that I love. These are the people that I grew up   around. These are the people that run society. So this is what I wanted to present. (On camera):  Excuse me, sir. I -- I drew you.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Thanks. RODRIGUEZ:  I drew you.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  That`s amazing.  RODRIGUEZ:  Nice to meet you too, bro. (Voice-over):  I was experimenting with so many different things. What I realized is that most people in society don`t love art. It`s just like a --   it`s probably like a niche thing. So I was thinking, how could I mix that with something that most people would enjoy and make it digestible to   people. So I`m mixing the drawing, but for them it`s more about the humanity of it and making somebody feel seen. The shock value of it and the   wholesome quality of it. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I drew you. CROWD:  Oh. RODRIGUEZ:  People just love it. And they`ll tell me like, man, I don`t know what it is. I don`t even care about art, but you, I`m obsessed with   your work.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I`ve been a fast since I was 16 years old. I`m 24 now. RODRIGUEZ:  Maybe like six months ago, I became the most followed visual artist on the whole entire internet. Now they`re going to come to the   gallery tonight at night. It might give them a different perspective.  The whole show is called Underground, because I went around the world, traveling the underground worlds. And the second meaning is I feel like I`m   an underground artist, because I never really had any work in any gallery or had a solo exhibition. Here from the Bronx that was on welfare and food   stamps in this, you know, gate kept industry. I always felt like -- I always just felt like I -- I didn`t belong.  I feel like I`ve been prepping for this moment since I was like 14, since I started painting for this show, I really had to show people, you know, what   I`m capable of because people think that I`m just like this TikToker overnight success. But, you know, I feel like I have more depth than that.   I really wanted to put all my effort so that people could see and hopefully they like it. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Let`s go from underground to under the sea for today`s story, getting a 10 out of tentacles. Researcher spotted a rare Dumbo octopus   during an expedition in the Pacific Ocean, Northwest of Hawaii often called the Cutest Octopus in the World. These are cephalopods and those two-  elephant ear like things, well, those are two fins protruding from their mantles. They`re rarely seen because they live nearly 13,000 feet below the   surface. This Dumbo octopus sort of look like a friendly floating ghost as well. Thanks to light shining from a remotely operated vehicle.  How do you get an octopus to laugh? Ten-tickles. Don`t forget to octo-put your vocabulary word in the comment section @coywire on social. Put the   definition, teacher, and school name in there too. And we`ll choose a winner to sneak into tomorrow`s show.  Our shout out today goes two Mrs. Ellerman`s (ph) government class at Lakes Community High School in Lake Villa, Illinois, rise up. Keep chasing those   dreams. Remember you have to see it before you can see it. I`m Coy Wire. And I`ll see you tomorrow. END 

Date: 2023-09-28
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. Happy Friday Eve, it`s Thursday, September 28th. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. Let`s start with a   random thought Thursday.  Why is it that only other people can tickle us? We can`t tickle ourselves, or why is it that when we`re making cookies, we bake them, but when we`re   making bacon, we cook them? Anyways, now I`m just hungry and I hope you are hungry for some knowledge.  Let`s get to our top story of the day. The U.S. government and 17 states are suing Amazon. They allege the company has abused its position as an e-  Commerce giant and harmed fair competition. That`s why the Federal Trade Commission also known as the FTC filed a lengthy complaint alongside 17   attorneys general. The FTC is responsible for enforcing laws that protect consumers like us. They`re meant to prevent fraud and unfair business   practices.  To that end, the new lawsuit claims that Amazon unfairly promotes itself over other sellers that use the platform. And that it puts those sellers at   a disadvantage by requiring fees for certain benefits. The FTC also argues that for sellers who list products on many different websites, Amazon   forces those sellers to put their lowest price on its platform. For its part, Amazon has denied the allegations. In a blog post, the company`s   Senior Vice President, David Zapolsky, said the lawsuit is, "wrong on the facts and the law."  Now, it`s too soon to tell who will win this argument. The lawsuit could take years to play out. Elsewhere, however, potentially as early as Sunday,   there is a looming government shutdown. CNN White House Producer Betsy Klein has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BETSY KLEIN, CNN WHITE HOUSE PRODUCER:  The U.S. Senate and House of Representatives are working around the clock to come to an agreement on how   to fund the government before it runs out of money just days from now. And there`s still a lot of disagreement on how to get that done. If they can`t   reach a deal before the deadline, the government will shut down.  And that means that all the money the government spends every single day on programs affecting all Americans get shut off. Nearly 4 million federal   workers will immediately stop getting a paycheck. And that puts an enormous burden on many federal workers, especially those who live paycheck to   paycheck.  Now, the White House has told each department and agency it`s time to come up with its own set of plans and procedures detailing who`s essential and   who isn`t.  Here are some examples. U.S. service, men and women are essential workers. So they`ll keep working without pay. Still the White House` warning that a   shutdown could put national security at risk. As many of the civilian workers that support them will be furloughed. And while TSA agents and air   traffic controllers are all essential workers, many of them can`t afford to work without pay. And the last time there was a shutdown in 2019, there   were major delays at airports across the country because many had to call out sick to find other ways to make money. During a shutdown, according to the White House, the Environmental Protection Agency would roll back most of its inspection activity at   hazardous waste sites and drinking water and chemical facilities, that could impact clean drinking water. And the government shutdown could also   affect some of the country`s most beloved treasures like museums and national parks. All Smithsonian museums and the national zoo would be   closed, according to 2021 guidance. Those shutdown would not affect zoo animal care.  It`s still unclear whether national parks would close, but in past shutdowns, the surrounding facilities have closed with trash piling up and   toilets overflowing. There are lots of other impacts to services we all depend on. And the key question now is whether Congress can come together   and reach a deal before the clock strikes midnight on Sunday, (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. Which of these is a palindrome? Fire Truck, Race Car, Desserts, Vroom? If you said Race Car, put your hands up. A palindrome is any word or phrase that`s spelled the same forwards as backwards.  So entire phrases can be palindrome as well. Like a man, a plan, a canal, Panama, a man, a plan, a canal, Panama, pretty wild, right? Well, race car   is a palindrome that`s at the heart of our next story.  Meet Jessica Hawkins, the 28-year-old, former British carting champion and W series racer. Last Thursday, she became the first woman in almost five   years to test a Formula 1 car, Formula 1 is the wildly popular sport for racing. There are 10 teams total, including big names like Mercedes, Red   Bull, and Ferrari.  Jessica Hawkins is an ambassador for the Aston Martin team. That`s the same luxury car brand favored by 007, that`s right Bond, James Bond. Hawkins is   no stranger to the franchise. She`s earned movie credits as a James Bond stunt driver. Last week, she was the leading lady when she did 26 laps on a   racetrack in Hungary to test Aston`s 2021 car. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JESSICA HAWKINS, RACER:  It`s a big moment. It`s a big moment for me. It`s a big moment for the team. It`s a big moment for women`s sport or women`s   motor sport, especially. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  And Hawkins said she hopes her test drive inspires more women to get into the sport. Now, for an adscititious story about someone who wants to   inspire women to unlock their potential meet CNN`s Champion for Change, Sophia Chang, she created a mentorship program for women of color like   CNN`s owned Sara Sidner. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SARA SIDNER, CNN SENIOR CORRESPONDENT:  This is my 27th year in television news. I have reported from Sri Lanka, India, at least 15 countries. I moved   to New York in March of 2022. After 14 and a half years in the field, the pivot from the field to the anchor chair was uncomfortable.  People think that I`m fearless because I go into war zones or because I go into conflict.  This is an important day, especially for the rebels. But I am afraid of failure because I grew up, with very little, that battle to survive, taught me to work really hard.  What Sophia does is she teaches you to break through that fear, to get to where you need to be. SOPHIA CHANG, UNLOCK HER POTENTIAL:  People always say, how do I start? I knew the second I met you, I`m going to invite you to one of my dinner   parties.  SIDNER:  You did? CHANG:  Yeah. SIDNER:  You knew me for five seconds. And you were like, I`m going to show you New York. I`m going to show you my New York. And you`re going to come   over to my house.  Hey, Sof.  Gather humans like -- like flowers. Why do you do that? CHANG:  I`m a French lit. major and there was a player studied. And the most famous line means one must cultivate one`s garden. I love pulling   people together.  Hi, beautiful.  SIDNER:  There are lawyers and there are actors and there are professors. CHANG:  Cheers, everybody. SIDNER:  You are there as a vessel to learn and to give back. So, it`s a beautiful quilt of human beings. (Voice-over):  Sophia stitched a storied career, most famously managing an A-list of Hip Hop royalty. CHANG:  That will never stop saying my name is Sophia Chang and I was raised by Wu-Tang. I was a yellow girl in a white world who wanted to be   white. And then I meet Wu-Tang, and they are so reverential of Asian culture. They brought me around to a love of my culture, and therefore a   love of self. SIDNER:  A self-love that later motivated Sophia to create a space exclusively for women of color. She calls it, "Unlock Her Potential."  Sophia, as a champion, she`s going to make sure that you feel proud of whatever it is you accomplished. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting at 10 out of 10 is a real fairytale flight sky diver Max Manow detaching from a paraglider, then becoming the first person   to pull off a wingsuit flight past the famous Neuschwanstein Castle in Germany, a wingsuits, webbed, shaped creates enough lift to slow dissent   and that lift along with the force of the fall allows the pilot to glide horizontally for this Young Manow reach speeds of 124 miles per hour. And   he said he`s had almost 10,000 jumps in his career.  Neuschwanstein go more than 150 years ago is said to be the inspiration behind the design of the castle in Disney`s Sleeping Beauty.  All right, for all of you beauties out there, we had so many great #YourWordWednesday submissions on my @coywire social accounts yesterday.   Congrats to @KelseyBohart07 (ph) in Mrs. Lucey`s class at New Riegel in Ohio, you submitted the winner at adscititious, an adjective, meaning   additional or supplemental. Well done.  Now our school shoutout today is going to Lewis and Clark Middle School in Jefferson City, Missouri, go Trailblazers. Remember subscribe to our CNN 10   YouTube Channel and post your request for shoutouts in the comment section. That`ll do it for today, you`ll.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, and I`ll see you tomorrow, Friyay. END 

Date: 2023-09-29
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello lovely people. Welcome to CNN 10. I`m Coy Wire. It`s Friyay, September 29th. And we`re going to finish this week   strong with some of the top stories from around the world, from the Plains of Kazakhstan to the south China Sea. But today`s lead story starts 250   miles above the Earth`s surface, aboard the International Space Station.  This large craft is the size of a football field end to end. And the living space is about the size of a six-bedroom house with two bathrooms and a   gym. Women and men from the United States, Canada, Japan, Russia, and Europe live and work there while traveling at the speed of five miles per   second. This research in science lab orbits the earth once every 90 minutes. For the past year, the ISS has been the home of NASA astronaut Frank Rubio. He was supposed to only spend six months there, but he had to stay longer   when his spacecraft sprung a leak. He ended up logging 371 days. That`s the longest any U.S. astronaut has ever spent in microgravity.  The world record is held by a Russian cosmonaut who spent 437 days in orbit back in the 90s. Rubio who has a wife and four children returned to earth   on Wednesday alongside two Russian colleagues. They dropped into Kazakhstan by parachute using this capsule. After such a long space light, Rubio needs   to adjust to life and gravity back on earth.  Let`s go from above the earth to below the sea, specifically the South China Sea, which is a major shipping route, surrounded by countries,   including China, Vietnam, and the Philippines. Earlier this week, the Philippine Coast Guard released footage of bleached and crushed coral along   two reefs near the island nation. The Philippines claimed China was behind the destruction and blamed the country`s maritime militia. But China denied   the allegation.  Moreover, China has claimed ownership over most of the South China Sea in defiance of an international ruling and competing claims by other   countries. It`s the latest in a long list of disputes about the South China Sea. Let`s check in with Steven Jiang CNN`s Bureau Chief in Beijing for   more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) STEVEN JIANG, CNN BEIJING BUREAU CHIEF:  China actually claims almost the entirety of the South China Sea, which is about 1.3 million square miles   based on what they call "historical proof" even though an international tribunal has rejected that. Nonetheless, they have maintained this   sovereign claim and they have been able to do what none of the other claimants have been able to do, that is in the past few years through land   reclamation and massive construction, turning many of this previously uninhabited reefs and atolls and islets into man-made islands equipped with   sophisticated radars, airstrips and other equipment. That is really the basis of why they have been able to increasingly project a military power in this region, not only through their Navy and Coast   Guard, but also through nominally civilian maritime militia. Now, we have been following the story for years, but in recent weeks and months, we have   seen this flare up of publicized incidents between China and other claimants, especially the Philippines. We have seen the Chinese Coast   Guard, for example, using water cannons and what Manila says are dangerous maneuvers to chase away, to drive away Philippine boats. The Philippines, of course, also accusing China of destroying a marine ecosystem in waters near its borders, but based on very deliberate actions.   But Beijing, of course, pushing back all these allegations and saying the only thing that`s changed recently is the government in Manila. Now they   have a new president, President Marcos, who is doing the U.S. bidding to instigate tensions and to create political farce. And they`re also very angry at the Philippines` decision to bring international media along to witness those encounters and saying this is   increasingly a stage performance to create more favorable international opinion for the Philippines. But the underlying question of all this, if   nothing changes, if the Chinese military is not going to pull out, what`s going to happen if people try to change the dynamic or the Chinese behavior   short of a war?  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia.  Did you know tarantulas can have pets? That`s right, but do they keep mice, lizards, frogs, or smaller spiders?  Tarantulas can have a symbiotic relationship with frogs. In exchange for protection, the frogs eat insects that threaten the spiders eggs.  The tarantula in our next story blew my mind, check out a newly discovered species. Researchers on an expedition to Southern Thailand found this   electric blue arachnid hanging out in a mangrove forest. They described the spider as mesmerizing with its blue violet hue that looks like sparks of   electricity. Tarantulas are native to Thailand, and the researchers had set out to document their diversity and distribution throughout the country. To   catch this species, they had to climb trees to lure the spider out of hollows. They say the rare blue color comes from the structure of hair on   different parts of the spider`s body.  Speaking of blue, our next story is about blue zones. Have you ever heard of these? Blue zones are areas of the world where people live longer than   the average lifespan. CNN Chief Medical Correspondent, Dr. Sanjay Gupta has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT:  Okinawa, Japan, Sardinia, Italy, the Nicoya Peninsula of Costa Rica, Ikaria, Greece, and   Loma Linda, California. They are the blue zones, five places where people live the longest and are the healthiest. But the question is why? Let me pick one of these places. And I`ll just pick Nicoya Peninsula of Costa Rica. What is it about this environment? DAN BUETTNER, AUTHOR, "THE BLUE ZONES":  You know, there is no silver bullet in any of these blue zones. I call it silver buckshot, or what are   they doing? Well, first of all, they`re eating a Mesoamerican staple diet, or they have for most of their life, which consists of three foods. I argue   it`s the best diets humans have ever invented, corn, beans and squash. Anybody can afford them, high in complex carbohydrates, high in niacin,   high in folate. That was about 80% of their diets. So that`s part of it. Like all blue zones, they were remote from the rest of Costa Rica. They have a 30-or 40-year delay at, you know, the onset of fast-food restaurants   and chips and sodas and -- and cars. You know, none of these centenarians have driven. They`ve walked their whole lives. It`s the additive of the   right diet, the right social environment, the right physical environment that is producing these extraordinary outsized life expectancy numbers. GUPTA:  Can that, what you just described in Nicoya Peninsula, can that be adapted? BUETTNER:  Not only can, but it does. You know, take Fort Worth, Texas. We worked there for five years and after five years against Texas controls, we   saw a drop in obesity by about 3%. Life satisfaction went up, vegetable consumption, went up, physical activity, went up. Not because we went in   and tried to convince beef crazed Fort Worth to eat more beans but because we went to all the restaurants and the schools and the grocery stores and   convince them to make the healthy foods cheaper and more accessible. We got the city to adopt policies to make that city more walkable and more   bikeable and it worked.  Now, is it a full blue zone like Sardinia? No, but we got them 10% to 15% of the way towards a blue zone. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is about a family whose picnic got put on pause, bear, pause. Check out this black bear crash in this   family`s picnic in Mexico. The bear wandered over and started chowing down on enchiladas and tacos. That is not Joe food bear. The family sat frozen   just inches away. Black bears usually aren`t aggressive to humans. And thankfully, the only thing this bear was after was the people`s lunch.  The National Park Service says that wild animals can come to crave human food once they`ve had a taste of it. One interesting fact about black   bears, their sense of smell is very good. They can catch sense from more than a mile away. That`s why the National Park Service recommends storing   food in your vehicle with the windows shut or keeping it in sealed containers. And if you`re camping, never keep food in your tent. Makes   sense, right? We don`t need any of us becoming a burrito.  Shout out time now. There is a red storm brewing Mr. Cabana`s class in Scarborough Middle School in Scarborough, Maine rise up. I hope you and   everyone watching around the world. Have a wonderful weekend. Remember, you are more powerful than, you know, I`m Coy. It`s been a blessing to spend   this week with you. END     

Date: 2023-10-02
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, and welcome back to another week of awesome. It`s Monday, October 2nd. And this year has been flying by -- I   feel like it was September, just two days ago. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. And we start with today`s latest on the government shutdown. Last week, we   covered how senators and representatives were struggling to agree on how to fund the government. And if they didn`t figure it out by Saturday at   midnight, the government would shut down, meaning millions of federal workers, responsible for services like the military, transportation and   clean drinking water would stop getting paid. That doesn`t mean all these services would end. Even if the government did shut down, essential workers   would continue showing up unpaid to keep Americans taken care of and safe.  But that`s a lot to ask from anyone who lives paycheck to paycheck, right? Fortunately, Congress averted a shutdown, by passing a short-term funding   bill, which president Joe Biden signed right before the deadline on Saturday. Biden said the bill would give Congress more time to work out   funding for the year ahead. New deadline is now November 17th.  So Saturday`s bill keeps the government open and takes care of aid for natural disasters. But it does not include any money for Ukraine and its   war with Russia`s efforts or security at our borders. And that means we could see additional bills addressing these issues in the coming weeks   ahead.  While politicians in Washington, D.C. were dealing with the shutdown about 200 miles north, New Yorkers were facing a crisis of their own. The city   was hit with record setting rain on Friday. Brooklyn saw a month`s worth of rain in just three hours` time. And more rainfall at John F. Kennedy   international airport than any other day since 1948. The water overwhelmed new York`s sewer system flooded streets and buildings. Even the city`s   famous subway. CNN`s Polo Sandoval takes us there now. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Chaos in New York City as heavy rain pounded the five boroughs and the surrounding areas. Brooklyn   saw a month`s worth some 4.5 inches in only three hours. Knee deep water flooded streets. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Within I guess, about 10 minutes, it waste high water. SANDOVAL (voice-over):  Forcing some residents to abandon their cars and others to create makeshift barriers to protect their homes and businesses.   Flooded subway stations in Brooklyn with at least 10 lines suspended. And even buses taking on water while still in service. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Oh, my goodness. SANDOVAL (voice-over):  As they tried to wade through the floods. New York`s airports weren`t spared either. LaGuardia`s historic Marine Air   Terminal flooded. In the Bronx, the National Weather Service warning that the Bronx River reached major flood stage, with levels hovering close to 5   feet. Mayor Eric Adams declaring a state of emergency for the city. MAYOR ERIC ADAMS (D), NEW YORK CITY:  This is time for heightened alertness and extreme caution. If you are at home, stay home. If you are at work or   school, shelter in place for now. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  China opened its first overwater bullet train line. It can take you to a city, 160 miles away in under one hour. The new line in   Fujian Province goes along the west side of the Taiwan, straight with the trains running as fast as 217 miles per hour. Fujian province is the   closest part of mainland China to the self-governing island of Taiwan, which China claims as its own territory, despite having never controlled   it. In September, China`s ruling communist party stated its aim to facilitate better connectivity and integration between Fujian and Taiwan. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. Which of these is not a requirement to become president of the United States?  Be a natural born citizen, be at least 35 years old, served in the U.S. military for a year, lived in the U.S. for at least 14 years? All of these are requirements to be president of the U.S. except having served in the U.S. military, according to article two of the constitution.  While there is a minimum age to be president, 35, there is no maximum and recent CNN polls have shown that Americans are worried about the age and   capability of the people who want to lead this country. But what about young voters? CNNs? Omar Jimenez talked to students at William & Mary, a   public research university and the second oldest institute for higher learning in the U.S. to get their thoughts on whether age is just a number. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  How many of you think that president Biden is too old to be president again? And so why, why do you feel that   way? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  He does make a good president, but I just think that there is not a lot of representation for our generation in the entirety of   the government right now. And I`d like to see more of that. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It`s like president Biden capable of serving another term, I think absolutely. They should look to his legislative record and   not necessarily to his -- his age or his persona. JIMENEZ:  It`s a key distinction for these William & Mary students, age versus ability. President Joe Biden would be 86 years old at the end of his   second-term, while former president Donald Trump is just three years behind him, a different world than those who weren`t even teenagers when Trump was   first elected. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I was 11, I think that happened. They don`t say, go look at somebody graduated 40 years ago, 20 years ago, 30 years ago or 50   years ago to ask them for college advice.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I`m just looking for a candid who`s appealing, but the current candidates, Trump and Biden, I mean, they`re fossils. JIMENEZ:  There are other candidates on the Republican side to choose from, but to some young conservatives, it`s more about perception. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I was in 6th Grade when Donald Trump won. He seems the same as he was in 2016 as I remember him. I don`t see his age affecting   him.  JIMENEZ:  Some Republicans believe it can`t just be about age. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  They dismiss us all the time for our age. So we`re not going to dismiss people on the other end of the spectrum for their age   either. JIMENEZ:  If I asked you, is Biden -- president Biden too old to run? You would say don`t focus on age? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Correct.  JIMENEZ:  OK.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  If you`re in really strong, great health and you look and you`re being perceived by the entire world as confident and in control,   then age wouldn`t come up. JIMENEZ:  The White House has maintained. Biden has more than demonstrated his fitness for the job. In 2020, voters under the age of 30 turned out in   greater numbers than in recent elections with exit polls showing they backed Biden by more than 20 points over Trump.  It`s part of why at Hampton University in Virginia, Vice President Kamala Harris kicked off her fight for our freedoms college tour, hoping to drive   young turnout on some of the issues they care about most. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We want people in office who are going to listen to us and make changes according to that as well. JIMENEZ:  It`s especially important for those who plan to vote for the first time. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I feel like a real adult. Just because we`re younger does not mean that we don`t have an understanding. JIMENEZ:  And to some that understanding doesn`t have an expiration date. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  If somebody is 80 years old, pushing 93 years old, as long as they know what they`re doing, that`s all that matters. JIMENEZ:  But to others, age means understanding, especially on issues like climate. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  They don`t have as long of a future on this planet as we do. JIMENEZ:  Hey, direct about it. Yeah. Are you enthusiastic about placing your first ever presidential vote for president Biden? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Given what he`s done in office? Yes, I am happy to vote for Biden. Just wish that we had another candidate who could relate to   us a little bit more. JIMENEZ:  It`s a bottom line that could swing an election by the youngest of margins. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I think in like all the difference.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yeah. I think it`ll be pivotal. A single college campus could make a difference, youth turn out as maybe the most important factor   in the next election. JIMENEZ:  Omar Jimenez, CNN. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is a magical landing by a sky diver in England. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JAN ZACKL, SKYDIVING INSTRUCTOR:  I`m coming for you. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Nailed it, Jan Zackl now known as Unicorn Man was one of about 30 sky divers in a contest attempting to land and ride an inflatable unicorn   after dropping from about 6,000 feet in the sky. Some of these skydiver were just ouch. But Jan or shall we say "Janicorn" was the main man, horn   to be wild. He says he was going about 60 miles per hour when he successfully mounted up. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ZACKL:  I`m coming for you. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  I do believe it would not behoove us to try that at home.  Fun fact, did you know, unicorns are the national animal of Scotland? Giddy up, this mythical creature even represents Scotland on the United Kingdom`s   Royal Coat of Arms right next to the lion of England.  I`d be lying if I said I wasn`t hyped for today`s shout out, a storms are brewing. The storms of Owyhee High School in Meridian, Idaho. Let`s go.   Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube channel. Time now for me to go. I`m Coy Wire. And I`ll see you tomorrow. END 

Date: 2023-10-03
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, lovely people. Welcome to CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news. I`m Coy Wire. And we are unveiling our winners of   #YourWordWednesday on Wednesday this week, so submit your unique vocabulary word today in the comment section of my most recent post @coywire on social   media. We`re going to choose one fun winner to work in to tomorrow show.  We begin today by looking at the most recent trend of labor strikes in America, Auto Workers, writers, and actors were all part of unions that   went on strike. The Writers Guild of America and SAG-AFTRA which represents film and TV actors went on strike this summer, making Hollywood hit the   pause button on filming. The Union Auto Workers strike was historic. Joe Biden became the first sitting U.S. president to visit workers on a picket   line when he joined Union Auto Workers in their ongoing strikes against General Motors, Ford, and Stellantis. The pandemic pushed many people to ponder their careers, their work life balance and job demands. Soon, a contract for a whopping 75,000 healthcare   workers at Kaiser Permanente facilities will expire. And if they don`t reach a labor deal, those workers plan to strike from Wednesday to   Saturday. Their main demand is for staffing shortage issues mainly in hospitals to be resolved. If not, this could lead to the largest healthcare   strike in U.S. history.  So how might this affect all of us? Well, healthcare workers like pharmacists, optometrists, nurses, x-ray techs, about 40% of Kaiser   Permanente staff might be unavailable to patients. They`re spread across California, Colorado, Oregon, Washington, Virginia, and Washington D.C.   We`re going to keep you posted right here on CNN 10. Ten second trivia.  In what city would you find the largest museum in the world?  Harris, France, St. Petersburg, Russia, Cairo Egypt, or New York, New York? If you said Paris, put your hands up. The Louvre in Paris spans nearly 800,000 square feet and houses tens of thousands of pieces of art,   including the Mona Lisa.  Now we are traveling to France where there is an invasion of bed bugs. The French government, trying to get the bedbug boom in Paris, under control.   People are completely freaked out finding themselves in a tempestuous situation. Usually undercover, these bugs are being found on public   transport systems, in movie theaters, at the airport. And with Paris hosting the 2024 Olympics in 297 days, city officials are on a mission to   get this infestation under control before they welcome people from around the world. More now from our Melissa Bell in Paris. But I have to warn you,   if you get queasy kind of easily, you might not want to see these videos you`re about to see. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: A nasty commute and not just for the passengers you can see. French officials say that bedbugs have infested   Paris` transport networks and the wider city. The race is now on to exterminate the bugs with less than a year to go until the Olympics. From   metros to high-speed trains, videos have shown them taking over some cinemas and even Charles de Gaulle airport, which is making for an itchy   situation as France prepares to host the rest of the world next summer. French officials were preparing to take measures to contain the scourge   with transport operators gathering this week to try to find ways of getting rid of the pests. But that`s not enough for some who say the thought of   sitting on a bus or a train next to the uninvited seatmates makes their skin crawl. LAURA MMADI, TRAIN PASSENGER (through translator): That really traumatized me. I`ll keep my luggage closed to prevent them from getting to my home.   Also, I`m not from here, so once I get home, I`ll have to wash all my clothes. BELL: Paris Deputy Mayor Emmanuel Gregoire says that no one is safe from the problem because the bugs can be picked up anywhere. A recent government   report estimated that about 1 in 10 French households had had bedbug infestations between 2017 and last year. There`s some fumigation companies   say business is higher than usual and more urgent. SACHA KRIEF, PEST CONTROL STORE MANAGER (through translator): We`ve had customers calling us up crying, desperate for a solution. And it`s very,   very costly when you have to throw away all of your bedding, when you have to undergo works in your apartment. And so you get into a sort of paranoia. BELL: And whilst bedbugs may be a growing nuisance in Paris, health experts say that they`re not considered dangerous, causing merely itching and   rashes, and their numbers are increasing not just in the French capital, but around the world. As people travel more and the bugs become more   resistant to pesticides. An irritating problem, but not one say French officials that should pose a threat to the upcoming Olympics, their plan to   stop the bedbugs biting as soon as they can. Melissa Bell, CNN Paris. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: On this show, we try to cover a wide variety of stories, right? And we feature CNN`s journalists from around the world here every day. But as   part of our champions for change series, CNN anchor and correspondent, Sara Sidner recently gave us a unique perspective when she sat down to describe   the emotional impact of reporting on conflict from around the world. We`ll hear from her now to get a perspective on what it can be like covering some   of the toughest, most impactful stories. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR, SENIOR & INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: For me, fear feels like a poison is being injected into my body.  Indeed, let`s pull back a little bit. Let`s pull back just a little bit. Let`s just pull back. Cause we`re -- I`m getting hit by some of the shots. I`m not fearless, but I work past it. I push past it and that actually makes me feel more powerful.  This is me. Like I`m not -- I don`t have it all together. Like I don`t want anyone to ever think that I have it all together. Although sometimes it   looks like that on TV. I cover a lot of conflict, Libya, The Arab spring, Afghanistan, the Mumbai Attacks. (On camera): -- dealing with, OK. All right. Um --  (Voice-over): In the middle of it, when it looks the scariest to the outsider, those are not the times that bring out that anxiety and that   fear.  (On camera): We`re out in the open. We have to run. It is literally weeks after I get home. Stop it. Those are the times when it creeps in, there are definitely plenty of us that experience PTSD after some of the things that we see that never leave   by the way, every now and then I`ll get a flash of something. I`ve never seen that. You`re what cohort? It looks like.  I have some of the most thoughtful kind colleagues, that I could ever ask for. People who literally will write me saying, hey, sis, are you okay? Do   you want to talk afterwards? Those are really important outreach. Why am I tearing up? The -- that outreach is really impactful. Sorry. Get it together. OK. I`ve had a lot of colleagues who have reached out and said, are you OK? And sometimes I`m not. And I can actually admit that to   them. They have been there. They have done it. And so that`s been really, really, really, really important.  If you find someone that understands it is a real special relationship, find your people as I like to say. Anything that can keep you out of that   loop at what I like to call the doom loop, I usually just take a deep breath in, and then I take one last sip of air. So like just, that it works   for me. Like it, it makes me concentrate on my breath, because that last breath is hard. What`s at your core. What you love, what you love about   yourself. Those are the things that bring you back to reality. Literally time changes everything. It is a cycle and we have to go through it.  That is tear gas. Let`s shut.  That`s part of being human. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10. Let`s go to Vegas, baby, to see the highly anticipated sphere, which made its debut last weekend as an   entertainment venue with two concerts by U2. It cost 2.3 billion to build, what Madison Square Garden Entertainment calls the World`s Largest   Spherical Structure. It`s 33 stories high, nearly two football fields wide and is almost completely wrapped by an LED screen. Fans inside described it   like being inside a giant spaceship.  I wonder if it got really hot inside after the show, because all the fans left. Our special shout out today goes to Lee Scott Academy in Auburn,   Alabama, Mrs. Cherry (ph) Walker. We see you. Every day, we have a choice to just keep sleeping on our dreams or we can get up and go get them.   Remember, submit those vocab words @coywire on social and put your school, your mascot and your teacher`s name in there too. See you tomorrow, lovely   people, go make it an awesome day. END 

Date: 2023-10-04
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, sunshine. Wonderful Wednesday to you. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, where I tell you the, what letting you decide   what to think.  Last to get to today, not a lot of time to do it. So let`s get to it. We`re going to start in China where the nation`s longest holiday is underway.   It`s the Mid-Autumn Golden Week, and for National Day, they`re celebrating the 74th Anniversary of the People`s Republic. Officials say they expect   nearly 900 million trips to be taken during the eight-day holiday period. That`s a lot of people traveling by car, by boat, train or plane, a 15%   jump, in fact, from 2019.  Now, during all this holiday travel, there will be a big boost to the economy. China`s ministry of tourism predicts people will spend about 780   billion U.N. or 109 billion U.S. dollars. That`s a 20% increase compared to 2019. This will be a welcomed boost. China`s economy has had a sluggish   year, but after being cooped up during the COVID-19 lockdowns, young Chinese folks are excited to be able to travel again. And they`re sharing   tips on social media about how to make the most of their holiday on a budget.  There is hope that a return to growth in China`s manufacturing sector and a surge in travel during the Golden Week holiday could help the economy pick   back up. China is also facing challenges in the form of a high debt, high unemployment rate and aging population and housing market troubles too.   That`s despite some of the measures that have been taken recently, like lowering interest rates and easing home and car buying restrictions to   boost the economy. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  China, the world`s second largest economy is in a slump. Prices are dropping. The real estate market is in a cash crunch. The   youth unemployment rate is so bad. The government stop publishing it, and some local governments are so broke. Medical benefits for seniors have been   cut, leading to protests. Tough times across the country. Yet this is the Chinese economy, government officials are eager to show the world bustling   factory floors, a free trade zone, and an industrial park dotted with international companies. Among the sites we saw on a state-sponsored trip   to Northeastern China, rare access inside the heart of what many call China`s Rust Belt. Are you able to have success despite all of the economic challenges facing China right now? UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  China`s economy as a whole is improving. We are confident that we can make a corresponding contribution   to the general trend of development.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  That confidence seems like a contrast to reality. Officially China`s economy is improving based on GDP, but the rebound isn`t   as fast as many investors had hoped, especially in a post-COVID world.  (On camera):  The Chinese government is certainly looking to foreign investment to help jumpstart its economy. But it`s also focusing on   factories like this one. (Voice-over):  An effort to make sure it still churn out enough products for export keeping China as the world`s factory. At the same time,   upgrading key industries, especially tech to become self-reliant or even leaping ahead of the U.S. and other rivals. Needed solutions, as China   remains one of the biggest drivers of global growth. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  A slow in China, it`s going to impact everyone else in the world. You will have the effect, of course, in demand, you will have   the effect in prices and so on and so forth. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  China saw so much growth in the past. Economists say, eventually it would hit a wall. Now it`s hoping some of the industries we   saw here on this trip will help the nation climb over it. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia, which of these U.S. government agencies is responsible for preparing for and recovering from disasters? FAA, FDA, FTC   or FEMA?  If you said FEMA, you are correct. The Federal Emergency Management Agency was established in 1979 by President Jimmy Carter. And a belated happy birthday to you, Mr. Carter turned 99 years old, three days ago.  All right, today at 2:20 p.m. Eastern time, don`t be alarmed if you hear an alarm coming from your phone. Here in the U.S., that sounds a little like   me or something like that. FEMA will be conducting a scheduled test of the wireless Emergency Alert System. So if you`re not supposed to have your   phone in class, you better leave it in your locker during that time, because those devices are all scheduled to go off at two 20 Eastern. Federal law requires the systems to be tested once every three years to help ensure that they`ll be able to effectively warn the public about big   emergencies. All radios and TVs will also be tested. Today`s test will be the seventh such nationwide drill, but only the second time it includes all   cell devices.  There have been some alert system hiccups in the past, like the false alarm at the state level that woke some folks up at 4:00 in the morning. And most   notably in Hawaii in 2018, an emergency worker hit the wrong button, sending out a false alarm for an incoming missile that employee lost her   job after that incident. Driverless vehicles are continuing to pop up all around the world, once just a tailpipe dream, we now have driverless taxis in certain cities, even   driverless tractors, tilling farmland, but our Senior Automotive Reporter, Peter Valdes-Dapena, explores weather will ever get to a place where   driverless cars are fully accepted. He says a truly driverless world might always be two years away. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PETER VALDES-DAPENA, CNN SENIOR AUTOMOTIVE REPORTER:  The idea of driverless cars, I think has been around since cars became commonplace on   American roads. Certainly since the 30s. My favorite movie, when I was growing up was probably The Love Bug, where is this Volkswagen. That`s   essentially a self-driving conscious entity in an automobile. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It`s the funniest thing ever seen on wheel. VALDES-DAPENA:  Go back to the `64 world`s fair. And you had companies talking about driverless cars with somebody in a control tower, talking to   you about like, OK, take your hands off the wheel now. And we`ll -- we`ll take you home. This idea`s been around because it just seems so obvious.   Automobile self-moving, well, it should be fully automobile and -- and drive itself.  Some 46,000 people a year die in automobile crashes, autonomous cars, if they become ubiquitous, would virtually eliminate that. The thinking is   since the majority of crashes are caused by "human error," if we eliminate humans, we would eliminate the errors. But let`s face it, when driverless   cars are in the news, they`re in the news for screwing up. MICHAEL BALLABAN, TRANSPORTATION EDITOR, CNN BUSINESS:  Whoa, whoa, whoa. Up, nope, we`re going on the wrong side of the road.  VALDES-DAPENA:  So the challenge is we`ve got machines interacting with people. Self-driving is one of the reasons that people are working so hard   on artificial intelligence. You know, it`s one thing to keep the land on the highway, but to actually like fully drive requires an almost human like   ability to improvise.  In the years I`ve been covering this industry, fully autonomous cars are always two years away. And they keep being two years away. Now, when it   comes, it`s not going to be all at once. For example, already, we`re seeing things like in agriculture with self-driving tractors, farmers can go out   there and program the machine, go home, have breakfast, work around the farm. While the field is plowed by an autonomous tractor. This holds the promise of democratizing automobiles. You don`t have to have a driver`s license. You don`t have to know how to drive. When the world   gets to a point where a mom or a dad can take their kindergarten age kid down to a car and say, here son, get in this car. It`s going to take you to   school. Because it`s one thing for me to get in a driver`s car and be willing to take that risk when I can put a young child in that car. That`s   the ultimate test. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  A new Guinness World Record gets today`s 10 out of 10 at an event that could have been an omnishambles as 219 dogs gathered in Los Angeles,   California for an advanced screening of paw patrol, the mighty movie. But it was totally possum. The well-organized event set the world record for   most dogs attending a film screening, the fur babies, wagged their stuff on a red carpet, posed for the paparazzi. They had to be at least one year old   and sit, good doggie, for at least 10 minutes of the movie in order for its count.  Now of all the world records, I`ve heard, I feel like this one is fairly attainable. Could we break this world record? Could your school get   together and get 220 dogs to sit and watch a movie for 10 minutes? If so, let us know. I wonder if an episode of CNN 10 would count. I`d bring the   doggy treats for that.  Congrats to our #YourWordWednesday winners, the Jaguars in Ms. Cantwell`s class at Jackson Middle for submitting the noun, omnishambles, a bad   situation caused by a series of mistakes and poor organization. Well done.  Our school shout out today, goes to Canton South High School in Canton, Ohio, rise up. Halfway through the week, shine, bright everyone, and go out   and make someone smile today. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-10-05
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, lovely people. Welcome to CNN 10. I`m Coy Wire. It`s Thursday, October 5th. Happy Friday Eve. We have big news, so we   have to jump right into historic news out of the nation`s capital. For the first time ever, the Speaker of the House has been voted out of office.   Speaker, Kevin McCarthy, the Republican leader in the House of Representatives was kicked out of his position in the middle of a   congressional term.  Speakers in the past have stepped down after losing the support of their party. But McCarthy is the first to be ousted through a vote. The ousting   was orchestrated by McCarthy`s rival, Republican Matt Gaetz. Many members of the House were unhappy with McCarthy`s stances on issues like spending   cuts and the war in Ukraine. And Gaetz warned that he would file a motion to vacate or a force of vote to remove the speaker if McCarthy worked with   Democrats to fund the government over the weekend, keeping the government running instead of risking it shutting down. But that`s exactly what   McCarthy did over the weekend.  Over a century ago, Republican Speaker Joseph Cannon faced a similar situation and basically dared his critics to vote him out. Cannon survived   that showdown marking the first time the House even thought about removing a speaker. Former House Speaker John Boehner also faced a threat back in   2015, but he didn`t wait for the vote. He decided to retire early, instead. Following Tuesday`s vote against McCarthy, the ousted speaker made it clear that he will not be running for this speakership again. And the race for a   potential successor is underway. Both House majority leaders, Steve Scalise of Louisiana and Jim Jordan of Ohio have already announced, they will run   to replace McCarthy as House Speaker. And a speaker election is expected to happen next week.  Clearly there are a lot of layers to this historic situation here. CNN`s Lauren Fox with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LAUREN FOX, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Former House Speaker, Kevin McCarthy vowing not to run for speaker again. After an unprecedented vote   Tuesday plunging the House of Representatives into chaos. The motion to vacate was filed by representative Matt Gaetz, who along with seven other   GOP members voted to oust the Speaker, with Democrats votes, the motion passed 216 to 210. McCarthy`s speakership was the third shortest in history and was plagued with GOP infighting over spending cuts, border security and providing aid   to Ukraine. Now, the race is on for House Republicans to elect a new speaker as another possible government shutdown is 44 days away. Several   names have emerged as possible contenders for speaker, including House Majority Leader, Steve Scalise. REP. MARIA SALAZAR, (R) FLORIDA: No one really knows who has the votes. So now we`re going to go through that exercise right now and see who has our -  - our support. FOX: One person not interested in the job is Gaetz. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Putting yourself forward for the speakership? REP. MATT GAETZ, (R) FLORIDA: Absolutely not. I have no desire to be Speaker of the House. FOX: McCarthy for his part says he has no regrets about his tenure as speaker. REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY, (R) CALIFORNIA: I don`t regret standing up for choosing government over grievance. It is my responsibility. It is my job. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia.  The Mississippi River starts in Minnesota and ends in which state? Mississippi, Louisiana, Texas, or Alabama? The Mississippi River ends where it starts flowing into the Gulf of Mexico. And that is in Louisiana where we`re headed next. CNN`s Chief Climate   Correspondent Bill Weir is on the ground in Louisiana, where millions of residents are facing a possible clean water crisis as salt water from the   Gulf of Mexico is creeping up the river threatening to contaminate their fresh water supply. We told you about this a bit earlier.  Now, a severe summer drought that lowered the Mississippi river`s water levels is to blame for this. Let`s take a look at the infrastructure and   possible solutions for this issue along the fourth longest river in the world. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT: In south Louisiana folks are plenty familiar with saltwater that moves at the speed of hurricane, but   now they must also worry about salt water that creeps steady and invisible toward the crops, machines, and drinking water systems of almost a million   people. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I happen to be one who believes in the power of prayer. I`m going to ask for people to pray for rain. WEIR: After a second straight year of extraordinary drought, the not so mighty Mississippi is too weak to hold back the Gulf of Mexico. So the   heavier salt water is running downhill towards new Orleans in the shape of a wedge with the toe, about 15 miles in front of the kind of inundation   that could threaten the health of the vulnerable and destroy everything from lead pipes to appliances.  So the Army Corps of Engineers is urgently racing against time and salt with a couple different tools. This is the first of what will be many   barges that can bring about a half million gallons of freshwater at a time downstream. They use it to dilute the brackish stuff as it goes into a   small water plant here in Plaquemines Parish. The Corps says they can move 36 million gallons a day. But even that wouldn`t be enough to save the New   Orleans water supply. So they`re already talking about maybe building pipelines to prop up that water system.  In the meantime, the Corps is also building a big sill, like an underwater speed bump, to try to slow the wedge as it moves inland. But these are all temporary fixes. And the leader of this parish says, if this is the new normal, that means parts of Louisiana will need the same   kind of desalination that they use in Israel and other desert communities. KEITH HINKLEY, PRESIDENT OF PLAQUEMINES PARISH: You`ve got one trailer would be the reverse osmosis and the other would be the filtration system   right there.  WEIR (voice over): Keith Hinkley is the president of Plaquemines Parish, a spread-out community of less than 25,000, now spending a fortune on   desalination. HINKLEY: If we didn`t have help of the state and the federal government, it could bankrupt the parish here. WEIR (on camera): Is that right? HINKLEY: So -- yes, yes. Because we are probably right now about $33 million in on this situation. WEIR: No kidding? HINKLEY: And, like I said, we`re a small parish. WEIR: Just this summer? Just this wedge? HINKLEY: Yes, yes, just because of this wedge. WEIR: Wow. HINKLEY: Yes. WEIR: This is land that`s familiar with hurricanes and flooding, not droughts and wildfires. HINKLEY: Oh, this -- yes, right, right. WEIR: How do you reconcile these things? HINKLEY: Because -- look, it`s like you say, when you look this way and you look that way, you`re looking at water. We`re in the middle of water, but   we`re in the middle of the wrong kind of water. And that`s why we`re -- we`re needing these -- these kind of machines. WEIR (voice over): There is hope El Nino will bring rare October rain. But this battle could last months with the latest forecast putting the wedge   close to New Orleans in the next three weeks. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Next up, some news about high tech helpers, medical robots that can step into risky or dangerous situations to help medics so that they are   kept out of harm`s way. This tech has several advantages, like being able to work for extended periods of time and reach places doctors might   struggle to get to, but there are also plenty of questions. How much will this tech cost and at what cost can or should these robots replace a   trained human, take a look. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Spread out.  DAVID HANDELMAN, SENIOR ROBOTICIST, JOHN HOPKINS UNIVERSITY APPLIED PHYSICS LABORATORY: I`m Dave Handelman, Senior Roboticist at the John Hopkins   Applied Physics Lab. We`re collaborating with the army on medic robot teaming. We look to apply robots to perform tests that are dull, dirty, or   dangerous. A medics for example, often have to deal with multiple casualties and we want to figure out ways in which robots can help. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Spot, go find another casually, send me his vital. HANDELMAN: For example, robots can carry special sensors, find casualties, gather vital sign information, and relay that back to the medic and allow   them to make better decisions for triage.  Here`s Spot. We`re exploring tasks like bag valve mask ventilation. We`re also looking at how robots can pull casualties out of harm`s way.  So here`s Spot, the four-legged robot. So there are sensors all around it. It also has a manipulator to grab things, voice commands, active stand. Come.  We use both speech and gesture to communicate with the robot. In our teaming experiments, people wear augmented reality headsets and they see   information that`s been transferred from the robot to them. These technologies, artificial intelligence, augmented reality robotics. They   will allow medics to do more over longer periods of time. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is positively amazing. NASA shared this image of pan Saturn`s innermost moon. And it`s not big. It`s   approximately 15 miles across. And is it just me or does this moon look like a ravioli. The new technology allowed us to get a better look at its   features and honestly, yeah, that might be a big piece of pillowy pasta. Throw a little sauce on there. Ah, the "pastabilities." Hey, this reminds   me, what do you call a fake noodle? An impasta.  Shout out is going to Chipley, Florida today. They see me rolling at Roulhac Middle School. Let`s go. Thanks for subscribing and submitting your   request on our YouTube channel for a shoutout.  Here`s your random thought Thursday question. If someone describes something to you as indescribable, didn`t they just describe it. I`m Coy.   This is CNN 10. And I`ll see you tomorrow, Friyay. END 

Date: 2023-10-06
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, sunshine, happy Friday, Friday. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news, where we tell you the   what, letting you decide what to think.  We`re going to start today with the latest news on migrants in the U.S. The headline, the number of people crossing the U.S. Mexico border is on the   rise. Border patrol agents apprehended more than 200,000 migrants illegally crossing the U.S. Mexico border in September alone, the highest number this   year.  Why? Analysts say there`s a complex mix of factors at play here, including changes to the U.S. border policy back in May increases in violence in   certain parts of Mexico and economic crises in places like Venezuela. The issues that the border are not new. Several presidential administrations in   a row have wrestled with the situation and the solutions are not simple, how much money should the government spend on border security? What methods   should be used to secure the border? How should people trying to cross the border be processed? Those are just some of the biggest sticking points   with this issue.  The city of San Diego, California recently declared a humanitarian crisis, asking for more federal resources in dealing with the increase of migrants.   CNN`s Camila Bernal is in San Diego at the U.S. Mexico border to give us a closer look at the growing crisis. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CAMILLA BERNAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A dramatic increase. Hundreds of migrants almost constantly arriving in waves into the   California border. Sometimes 50 or 100 or just five. Many with the help of a so-called coyote or smuggler. We ran into one operating openly at the border. He asked us   not to show his face and distort his voice.  (On-camera): He says to get to the U.S. you need at least $2,500. (Voice-over): The illegal trafficking of people operating almost like a travel agency. The Coyotes arrange the trip starting in the Middle East,   Asia, South or Central America. Then they buy plane tickets and tell migrants exactly where to go. With each paying a few thousand dollars or between 9,000 to 12,000 for Mexican nationals, The business is lucrative. (On-camera): He says they`re at war with another cartel, and so the only way they can get money is by bringing people in. (Voice-over): People like Alexander. (On-camera): He says he came here because of the violence that you live in Colombia.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The number of hundreds of people being here at any given time over the last couple weeks is not normal. BERNAL: Behind me is Mexico. This is an area in Boulevard, California, where there is a gap in the border wall. So a lot of the migrants are able   to just walk into the United States. They continue this walk along the border wall and eventually turn themselves into border patrol. This is   where that asylum process begins. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  San Diego is not the only city dealing with an influx of migrants and asylum seekers. In New York City, the shelter system is straining under   the influx of migrants. So officials are pushing back against a legal agreement that says they have to provide emergency housing. This week, the   mayor of New York City, Eric Adams is traveling through Latin America where he says he will discourage migrants from coming to New York. And in Chicago, the governor, JB Pritzker and the mayor, Brandon Johnson confronted top White House officials demanding, they take steps to address   the migrant crisis. President Biden pledged in 2020 to never build another foot of wall along the U.S. Mexico border saying that it was not a serious   policy solution, but now citing high illegal entry, his administration has just announced it will waive 26 federal laws in order to build and add 20   more miles of border barriers in the Rio Grande Valley. It`s an area with especially high illegal entries. From last October to August, there were   nearly 300,000 encounters there. There are no easy solutions. And the number of border crossings is expected to increase further as local and   federal agencies continue to grapple with solutions.  Ten second trivia. Kubal is the capital city of what country?  Pakistan, Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia, or Yemen? Kabul is the capital of Afghanistan. A nation of about 39 million people.  Next, we have a story about a courageous group of young women in Afghanistan who are having to secretly get an education. The Taliban, a   radical group took over the country in 2021 after the U.S. controversially pulled out its troops. And that`s when life got difficult, especially for   women. They shut down schools for women. They ban them from public spaces, but we`re about to meet a group of young women who are sneaky and secretly   getting an education because they feel it`s absolutely worth the risk. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You are witnessing a courageous act of rebellion. Young girls gather to learn in a secret classroom. To the Taliban, they are   criminals, defying a ban on female education. But these students say they`re determined to continue their schooling no matter the cost. Two of   them told us why. YALDA, STUDENT AT SRAK SCHOOL` NETWORK (through translator): I`ve told myself that even if the Taliban arrests me, I will stand up and tell them I   don`t want to be kept at home. She says, I just want to learn. And that is not a crime.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  CNN was granted access to this underground classroom. On the condition, we can conceal the identity of the students and staff and   keep the location hidden. Around 30 students huddle into this little room to learn everything from science to math, to tailoring and drawing. This is   one of nine secret schools that educate more than 400 girls across eight Afghan provinces. It is operated by a clan destined network called SRAK.   Families find the program through word of mouth and demand is growing.  It was founded by this woman, Parasto Hakim. She says because of her activism, she was recently forced to flee Afghanistan. But in the summer of   2021, as Kabul fell to the Taliban, she tells us she anticipated the ban on female education and got to work. PARASTO HAKIM, FOUNDER OF SRAK SCHOOLS` NETWORK: So we were watching some documentaries. I was looking at Afghan woman sitting up NGOs in like hide   and undergrounded places. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Inspired to inspired in part by Christiane Amanpour`s 1996, CNN documentary Battle for Afghanistan. Hakim began to follow the   example of women`s set nearly 25 years ago. FARANAZ:  I love my work. It`s my right to work. And I need to work. HAKIM: Afghanistan as fully shattered. It is in darkness. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The Taliban is forcing women into this darkness, effectively erasing them from much of public life. The U.N. says the   group`s draconian rules may amount to gender apartheid in crimes against humanity. But this little classroom in the shadows provides array of hope.  The school is like a light for me, she says. It is like a road for me that I can see happiness in sunrise at the end of it. Brave women and girls   dreaming of a future without the Taliban and boldly preparing to step out into the light again. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, for today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, it`s a bird. It`s a plane. No, it`s a 104-year-old skydiver, Dorothy Hoffner, in Ottawa,   Illinois kicked her, walk her to the curb, then went up in a plane, 13,500 feet. And she reportedly said, "Let`s go, Geronimo." Ms. Dorothy coming in hot zoom in and fallen at a speed of 120 miles per hour. It`s believed that she has just set the record for oldest person to   ever tandem skydive. The world record was set in 2022 in Sweden by a 103- year-old. But Ms. Dorothy`s bid has been sent to the Guinness World Records for certification. She said she wasn`t scared at all. And this reminds us   that it`s never too late to chase our dreams. She didn`t start skydiving until she was 100 years old.  Today`s shout out goes to Ms. Dorothy. And Mr. Crosby and the whole crew at Trailridge Middle School in Shawnee Mission, Kansas. Rise up. Thanks to all   of you, who`ve learned and laughed with us this week. Before we send you out with a look back at some of the moments we`ve shared. Remember, you are   more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire. We are CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END 

Date: 2023-10-09
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, and welcome to CNN 10. It`s Monday, October 9th. Thank you for spending part of your day with us. I`m Coy Wire.   And we start with news that broke over the weekend on Saturday, marking a dark day in the history of Israel. The Islamist militant group, Hamas,   launched a surprise attack on Israel. The assault began early in the morning with Hamas firing thousands of rockets from the Gaza Strip into   neighboring Israel.  The militants then entered into Israel, broke into homes and claimed to capture dozens of Israelis. Israeli Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu   said, Israel is now at war with Hamas after this deadly and unprecedented surprise blitz.  Israel Defense Forces or IDF responded with their own airstrikes targeting Hamas inside the Gaza Strip. Hundreds on both sides of the conflict have   died from the attack. Thousands more have been injured, but those numbers continue to rise.  The Gaza Strip is an area that`s only about 25 miles long along the Mediterranean sea. It`s surrounded by Egypt to its west and Israel to its   east. It has been hotly disputed for decades. Hamas is now in control of the territory, but Israel controls most of the access to and from the Gaza   Strip.  Before we continue with more on this latest conflict, CNN`s Nic Robertson explains the history of Gaza and the tensions in this region. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Gaza is only about 25 miles long and seven miles wide. But this small strip of land is one of the   most fought over in history. It was an Egyptian base, a raw city of the Philistines and the place where the Hebrew hero Samson betrayed by Delilah   met his death, since then much blood has been spilled.  The most recent contest for Gaza began at the end of World War II when persecuted Jews traveled to Israel from Europe, looking for a new start   after the horrors of the Holocaust. In 1947, the U.N. created a plan to split Israel into two countries, one for Jews and one for the Arab people. Backed by the U.S. president Harry S. Truman, David Ben-Gurion, Israel`s Founder, proclaimed the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948. Egypt   then attacked Israel through the Garza Strip. Israel was victorious, but Gaza remained under the control of Egypt and an influx of Palestinian   refugees began. In 1967, war broke out between Israel, Egypt, Jordan, and Syria in what became known as the six-day war. Israel seized the Gaza Strip and held it   for about 40 years. In 2006, Hamas, the groups sworn to destroy Israel and listed by the United States, European and Union and others as a terrorist   group won a landslide victory in Palestinian, legislative elections and Israel unilaterally pulled its forces out of Gaza that year. Hamas was now in control of the territory. However, Israel still controls much of the area`s access to and from the Gaza Strip. Since then, Israel   and Hamas have been exchanging blows. Israel maintains Hamas as a violent terror organization. While Hamas says they represent an oppressed people   being victimized by the Jewish state. The international community continues to press for a cease in violence, but for now the Strip`s population of 1.8   million people are trapped in the crossfire. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  This surprise attack on Israel over the weekend came 50 years and one day since another attack known as the Yom Kippur War. Israel has since   spent billions to create one of the world`s most formidable security systems. But in this case, the Israeli government appeared to be caught off   guard. And the moment is seen as a massive intelligence failure. So why this most recent attack? Hamas says the assault on Israel was in part to defend the holy site, the Al-Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem, in response to what they claim are attacks on   it. And the desecration of it, as well as they say, an ongoing siege of Gaza. The holy site compound is one of the most revered places in Islam and   Judaism. The sacred grounds known to Muslims as noble sanctuary and to Jews as the Temple Mount have been a flash point of tensions between Israel and   the Palestinians for decades.  Clashes have frequently broken out at the site between Palestinian worshipers and Israeli forces. Police rated the compound several times over   the last year. Violence has been particularly heightened this year. The number of Palestinians, both militants and civilians killed in the West   Bank by Israeli forces is at its highest in nearly two decades. Let`s go now to CNN`s Tom Foreman, to better understand how Hamas forces attacked   Israel this past weekend. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  This extraordinary series of attacks began at 6:30 in the morning, when Israel was asleep with this massive barrage of   rockets flowing out of Gaza. Note that this would be the level at which their most rudimentary rockets would hit about 6 miles or so. Then you   reach out to maybe 25 miles and their most advanced rockets, the ones that would most seem to rely probably on some technology beyond them. Iran has many intelligence people would say, would reach up here to Tel Aviv, that`s about 45 miles from here. Whatever the placement of them was,   though, there were an awful lot of them. We don`t have an exact count, but it appears to be in the thousands. That would matter because that would   make it easier to overwhelm Israel`s missile defense system, the Iron Dome system, and make sure that some got through, even if many were stopped. More importantly, by doing this, all indications are that laid the groundwork for what came next. At 7:40, an hour and 10 minutes later,   that`s when armed soldiers, fighters started coming out of Gaza into Israel, some by knocking down walls and barriers here, some coming in by   air with powered parachutes, some by boats going around here. This was something again, that indicated it was a very planned attack.  (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ROBERTSON (voice-over):  In the early hours of Saturday, Israelis woke to a sudden assault from Gaza militants. The surprise attack, claimed by the   Palestinian militant group Hamas, a complex and massive operation, marking a steep escalation of hostilities. The attack began with a huge barrage of   missiles fired from Gaza. Thousands of rockets, some making direct hits on targets across southern Israel. Under the cover of the missiles, a large-scale infiltration began   as Hamas militants crossed by land, sea, and air, even using paragliders to cross into Israel. Videos from border crossing stations show Hamas fighters storming into Israeli territory. A few miles away in the border town of Sderot, Hamas was   seen driving and opening fire at civilians. The gunmen tore through the streets, leaving a trail of casualties behind. The full extent of the   casualties is unclear, but hundreds have been killed and more than a thousand injured on both sides. During the raid, some fighters also took Israelis as hostages. Israel quickly retaliated, hitting multiple targets along the Gaza Strip. In Gaza   City, two high rise buildings collapsed after an airstrike. The unrest continuing late into the night, with both sides trading rocket fire.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has been unwavering in his message that Israel is at war with Hamas. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  So what happens next? For his part, Israel Israel`s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has vowed that his country will quote, "take mighty   vengeance." And the Israeli security cabinet has officially declared a state of war. But Israel is not only keeping a close eye on the Gaza Strip,   but also two others in the Middle East region, which includes one of its chief rivals, Iran. Iran has already sent congratulatory remarks on this   attack and support for Hamas.  Another nation in the Middle East that could be seen as a key factor in bringing possible mediation between Hamas and Israel is Qatar. Qatar, which   is a backer of Hamas released this statement saying, quote, "The ministry of foreign affairs held Israel solely responsible for the ongoing   escalation due to its continuous violations of the rights of the Palestinian people." Many countries have condemned this current attack as   an act of terror. Hamas has over the years, claimed many attacks on Israel and has been designated as a terrorist organization by the United States,   the European union and Israel. On Saturday, President Biden said his administration`s support of Israel`s security is quote, "rock solid and unwavering." And that Israel has the   right to defend itself and its people. Big questions now remain. And CNN is closely monitoring the situation and the responses from those involved in   the region and around the world.  We`ll keep you posted right here with continued coverage as events unfold, that`s all for today. We hope you have a strong start to your week and   we`ll see you right back here tomorrow. END 

Date: 2023-10-10
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello friends. It`s Tuesday, October 10th. Welcome to CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news. I`m Coy Wire. Thank you for   spending part of your day with us. Today on the show, we`re going to take you back to Israel and Gaza, where the world watches as fighting between   Israeli Defense Forces and Hamas militants continues.  This level of fighting has not been seen in Israel since the nation`s founding in 1948. And on our show yesterday, we laid out how this conflict   began and gave you a background on the decades, long dispute around the Gaza Strip. You can view that episode in our archive or on our CNN 10   YouTube channel.  Now the death toll from this weekend`s attacks continues to rise with several hundreds killed in Israel. On Monday, the Israel military said that   they have now taken complete control of the Israeli communities that had been initially stormed by Hamas, gunman. But Hamas militants claim they   still hold over 100 hostages. It`s believed that among them are American, Mexican, Brazilian and Thai citizens.  The Israeli military vows to continue a complete siege of Gaza and is hitting back hard at Hamas militants. Israeli Defense Forces say that   they`ve destroyed hundreds of Hamas targets there. The Palestinian Ministry of Health says that those strikes have killed hundreds of people and say,   dozens of children are included in that death toll.  Meanwhile, Gaza militants continue an aerosol on Israel firing a barrage of rockets at Israeli cities. The Israeli people have long had a system called   the Iron Dome for protection. It detects those rocket attacks and attempts to destroy them mid-air. CNN`s Nic Robertson is on the ground in Israel   with more on how that defense system works. And a reminder that this is a fast-evolving situation and you can stay up to date@cnn.com for the latest. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: The only thing that we are aware of that can compromise the Iron Dome is a lack of ammunition, and   there`s no indication that it has a lack of ammunition at the moment. Generally, the stocks are high in anticipation of events like this, the   United States supplies more ammunition as required for Israel. I think it goes without saying at the moment that those -- that those flows of   ammunition will be -- will be ready -- will be coming. That`s the commitment we heard from President Biden. The way the system works, the system works across the country. The Iron Domes, wherever they are on the ground, like the one we saw firing out   there, interlocks with other Iron Dome firing systems throughout the country. Where missiles are fired from Gaza, the system reads, detects   where the missiles are precisely coming from and where they`re calculated to be going. And the nearest and best available Iron Dome system fires off   to intercept those Hamas rockets as they come into Israeli territory. That`s what we`re witnessing right now. This is the defensive missile system taking off. The sirens were going off around here. And you can see -- I can see black smoke rising just to the   left of the Iron Dome. That`s new black smoke. Black smoke often indicates an impact. We don`t know that right now. But we have seen at least several   dozens of these interceptor rockets, the Iron Dome, taking off here. The sirens have gone off. I`m looking down the highway. The traffic stopped   here. Everyone is getting out of their vehicles to find a safe space to hide. And you`re hearing the booms there of the intercepts that are   happening.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: All right, next up, we move to news about the upcoming annual solar eclipse. It`s a major celestial moment set to occur on Saturday, October   14th. And if you`re here in the United States, we just may see what is called a Ring of Fire. The moon is going to pass between the earth and the   sun starting around 9:13 a.m. Pacific Time on the west coast. It`ll end in the U.S. in Texas at 12:03 Central Time. Yes, astrologers can get that   specific.  The moon will cover 90% of the sun`s surface and create what could become some beautiful steely skies. The best viewing areas are shown on this map   with the path with the yellow circles there. If you can`t catch that, if it`s cloudy or you`re busy, mark, April 8th on your calendars for what will   be the total eclipse of our hearts, that`s when we`re expected to see the moon completely cover the sun, any total solar eclipse with best viewing in   the path with these blue circles here.  And if you plan on watching that, the sun will still be super bright enough to burn. So be sure to wear protective glasses. And if you miss that one,   you`re going to have to find yourself a calendar that goes all the way to the year 2046 to market, because that`s when will next see a total eclipse   of the sun in the contiguous, U.S. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Watching as the moon blocks out the light from the sun, it can be hard to imagine the amazing cosmic coincidence taking place.   The sun`s diameter is some 400 times larger than the moons, but it`s just the right distance away to appear the same size. For a couple of minutes   when the sun and moon are perfectly aligned, the moon completely covers the sun`s disc. The sun`s atmosphere or Corona can be seen in the dim light,   along with stars and planets. This so-called totality only exists in a narrow band where the moon`s shadow falls on the earth.  Outside the zone, some observers can see a partial eclipse where it looks like a chunk has been taken out of the sun. It`s not a phenomenon that will   last forever. The moon is slowly moving away from the earth. And one day it will appear too small in the sky to cover the sun completely. If you are   lucky enough to see this incredible spectacle, remember never look directly at the sun, even with everyday sunglasses, you risk causing permanent   damage to your eyes. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Ten second trivia. Which of these nations would you find on the Southern end of the Malay Peninsula? Bangladesh, Singapore, Cambodia, or Vietnam? A city nation, and a state, Singapore is your correct answer here. Ding, ding, ding.  Now some of you may already be working hard to save up for the day that you can buy it, your very own car. Well in Singapore, where we`re going to take   you next, that`s going to cost you 104,000 Singapore dollars or 76,000 U.S. dollars. And guess what? That fee doesn`t even include the car. CNN`s   Kristie Lu Stout explains the policy in one of the most expensive cities to live in, in the world. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Owning a car, the tiny island nation of Singapore could burn a massive hole in your pocket. And that`s before   you get to the part, when you actually buy a car. Let me explain. And immensely space star Singapore runs on a quota system. So if you want to   buy a car, you must first bid for a certificate of entitlement, basically a license just to own one.  Now this is over and above a driving license and it costs $106,000. That amount could fit you not one, not two but four Toyota Camry hybrids in the   U.S. And that makes Singapore the world`s most expensive city to buy a car in. But credit where it`s due, Singapore has an impressive local transport   system catering to its 5.9 million citizens connecting all parts of the island that could be driven across in less than an hour. Out space is   finite, which is why the quota system was brought in more than three decades ago. It limits car ownership to keep traffic in check and reduce   emissions. So owning a car in Singapore, one of the world`s most expensive cities is not just a luxury. It`s almost out of reach for many. Kristie Lu   Stout, CNN, Hong Kong. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is about a used football Jersey, but not just any Jersey, it was worn by arguably the greatest of all-time.   The GOAT Tom Brady, with a record seven super bowl titles to his name, that`s more than any NFL franchise, by the way, Brady wore this Jersey in   his final game on January 16th earlier this year. That was right before Brady announced his retirement. Sotheby`s and Wynn Hotel are auctioning   this piece of NFL history and they`re expecting to bring one and a half to two and a half million dollars.  I wonder if there`s any sweat still on that. Could you use like the genetics and clone the greatest of all-time and then have another GOAT or   would that just be a bad idea?  That`s all for us today on CNN 10. You all know what time it is. You have the rest of the day to send me your most sagacious, prodigious,   unequivocally, idiosyncratic words to my social @coywire for us to feature Your Word Wednesday. So submit your vocab word along with the definition,   your city, state school, and even your teacher`s name. If you want in the comment section on my most recent post, and we`re going to choose one good   one to work into tomorrow show. Good luck.  Now, we get ready to rumble. Today`s shout out goes to the Waverly Warriors at Waverly High School in Lansing, Michigan, rise up. I`m Coy. This is CNN   10. And we`ll see you tomorrow. END 

Date: 2023-10-11
NATASHA CHEN, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hi everyone. I`m Natasha Chen filling in for Coy today. Wonderful Wednesday to all of you. I`m so   grateful to be here with you on this episode of CNN 10. We`re halfway through the week, so let`s get moving.  We`ll start with the conflict in Israel and Gaza. We`re closely monitoring all developments. Missile strikes continue from both sides of the conflict   as the death toll continues to rise. Questions remain as to what`s next, as the president of the international committee of the Red Cross has stated   violence in the region, "has the potential to escalate dramatically."  Reminder of that Monday`s episode of CNN 10 has a full explainer on the decades` long dispute around the Gaza Strip. You can find that in our   archive section on the CNN 10 YouTube channel or @cnn10.com. We`ll continue to report on the story in the days ahead. We go now to India where flash flooding in the Himalaya has killed at least 70 people. This after a glacial lake overflowed its banks following days of   torrential rain. The search for survivors has been hampered by damaged roads, bad weather, and poor communication.  As seen in our next segment, there are creative solutions needed to get much needed supplies to cut off communities.  Ten second trivia. Which of these U.S. states became the 31st state in 1850? California, Texas Nevada, or New Mexico? In 1850, California with a population of around 90,000 became the 31st state and is now home to around 39 million.  Up next, news from the Golden State where I`m reporting to you from now, California is making history as the first us state to say no to four   potentially harmful chemicals in U.S. food products. On Saturday, California Governor Gavin Newsom signed a law that bans Red dye No. 3 and other potentially harmful food additives and consumer goods.   These ingredients are in a bunch of well-known candies and drinks. We`re talking Skittles, protein shakes, instant rice, and even boxed cake.  In response to the signing, the California governor said the California Food Safety Act was a positive step forward. For their part, the National   Confectioners Association has said that by acting outside of the FDA, the Bill`s approval will undermine consumer confidence and create food safety   confusion. Nothing happens yet, though, the bill won`t take effect until 2027. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This helmet will make it easier for deaf and hard of hearing football players to compete. AT&T and Gallaudet University have   collaborated to develop the first 5G connected football helmet. It will allow coaches to select plays on a tablet and send them to a lens inside   the helmet.  Using augmented reality on a small display, the quarterback can keep their team playing at the pace hearing teams take for granted. AT&T says that the   helmet is only the start and its technology could lead to other applications like improving safety for first responders or on construction   sites. (END VIDEO CLIP) CHEN: Up next, we continue our coverage of driverless vehicles. Are they safe? Do they make life better? We`ve seen cars that can switch lanes for   you when ones that let you go hands free behind the wheel. And we`ve seen driverless taxis and shuttle services, but what about a car available for   purchase that would allow you to completely shift your focus off the road? But like most cases, there`s a catch, stick around for more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PETER VALDES-DAPENA, SENIOR AUTO WRITER, CNN BUSINESS (voice-over): If you want a car with helpful automated driving tech, there are lots of options   to choose from. Some like Tesla`s autopilot and others can keep the car at its lane on the highway, even changing lanes for you. Some like GM super   crews, even let you take your hands off the steering wheel, but they all have one thing in common. You as the driver must always keep your eyes and   your mind on the road. Not so with Mercedes-Benz`s latest drive pilot system.  (On camera): I`ve been on plenty of car tester drive, but this is the first one I`ve ever been on where I`ve gone looking to get into a traffic jam. With this button here, I could initiate a system that not only allows me to take my hands off the steering wheel, but -- and this is a first take my   eyes off the road, as long as I`m on a major mapped highway and I`m in a traffic jam going less than 40 miles an hour. But this is L.A. traffic jams   are super easy to find here.  (Voice-over): Once I`m in the right conditions and drive pilot is initiated, I can genuinely pay zero attention to driving. This car, even   lets me watch videos, browse the internet and play games on the touchscreen like trivia. It`s fun, but drive pilot only works in a pretty narrow set of conditions. On top of having to be on the highway, traveling under 40 miles an hour, it   only works in the daytime. And the driver can turn completely around in their seat or lean way back and take a nap. Various sensors, make sure I`m   physically in position to take over if I have to. Also Mercedes chose sunny Southern California for this test drive. If it rained, this wouldn`t have worked either. Another reason for California.   It`s the only state besides Nevada, where this tech is currently legal.  Now that companies like Waymo and Cruise have self-driving cars, giving taxi rides in some places. Mercedes drive pilot system might seem kind of,   man. But neither of those companies as close to selling you a car, you can park in your own driveway. This is the first time any automaker will sell   you a car, provided you can afford a Mercedes S-Class or EQS plus $2,500 for the first year to unlock the feature where the car will completely   drive for you, even if it`s only some of the time. (END VIDEOTAPE) CHEN: And for today`s 10 out of 10, we`re asking how did the sheep cross the road? A large herd of sheep actually recently crossed the road in a   fellow Washington causing quite the scene. A video shot by a drone, showed a massive group of sheep being herded across the road. Think we`re trying   to be perfidious. Well, look at what it took to get them to the other side with CNN`s Jeanne Moos, next. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Don`t even try counting sheep. There are too many of them. Swirling beneath the drone, recording   them in Othello, Washington, a couple of men on utility vehicles herded the sheep while another guy strung plastic fencing across the highway. How did   the sheep cross the road? Following each other like sheep naturally. It felt like something out of rawhide.  Speed it up. It was weirdly mesmerizing and oddly reminiscent of cow herd by a Kansas character calls himself farmer Derek. Derek drove around   strategically dropping feed for the cows so that the drone overhead captured them forming a smiley face.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh, look at this, it`s perfect. Look at that. MOOS: Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) CHEN: And now onto my favorite part of the day. I want to give a special shout out to Oxford Hills Middle School in South Paris, Maine. We see you   and we hope you and everyone watching around the world has a wonderful Wednesday.  And thank you to Coach Williams World Geography`s second hour from Bethany, Oklahoma for selecting this Wednesday`s word perfidious, which means   deceitful and untrustworthy. Have a great day, everyone. We`ll see you here tomorrow. END 

Date: 2023-10-12
NATASHA CHEN, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hi everyone. I`m Natasha Chen, filling in for Coy today. I`m so grateful to be back with all of you for   another exciting day of CNN 10. Coy will be back tomorrow.  We`re going to continue with our coverage of the conflict in Israel and Gaza. The current situation can feel very confusing at times, and the   conflict dates back many decades. Reminder that we have a full explainer of what`s going on in Israel and Gaza from our show on Monday. But for now   here`s the latest news.  At the time we recorded our show, at least 1200 people had been killed in Israel. And up to 150 hostages are believed to be held in Gaza. In a speech   on Tuesday, President Biden called the Hamas attack, an act of sheer evil and confirmed 14 Americans were killed with others being held captive.  Israel is also hammering Gaza with airstrikes hitting hundreds of targets, reducing neighborhoods to rubble and killing at least 1055 people.   According to Palestinian officials, a humanitarian crisis is swiftly unfolding in Gaza with hundreds of thousands displaced and many cutoff from   food and electricity.  Next, we`ll hear from CNN`s Jon Sarlin, who will detail why Hamas` most recent attack is considered unprecedented by many. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Scale of this, the brutality is truly unprecedented. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Completely unprecedented attack.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is completely unprecedented. JON SARLIN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The conflict between Israel and the Palestinians is not new. In fact, it`s been going on since before Israel`s   founding in 1948. So why is Hamas` latest attack on Israel so unprecedented? First, the surprise of the attack. On October 7th, Hamas   launched a barrage of rockets towards Israel. While gun men entered Israel from Gaza. Israel has not seen this kind of infiltration of military bases,   towns inhibit seem in its 75-year history. The country is known for having one of the world`s most impressive armed forces, a premier intelligence agency and sophisticated border security.   But this attack seemed to catch them off guard.  Second, the intensity of the attack. Israel Defense Forces have said that more than 5,000 rockets have been launched from the Gaza Strip since   October 7th. To put that into context in 2021, during the 11-day war with Hamas, some 4,300 rockets were fired.  Following Saturday`s attack, Israel has formally declared war on Hamas. The first such declaration in 50 years, setting the stage for a major military   operation in Gaza. Israeli forces are battling militants in Southern Israel and have been pounding Gaza with airstrikes. By the conflicts` third day,   over 900 people were killed in Israel while authorities in Gaza said over 680 people have been killed in the Palestinian enclave.  Lastly, the hostage situation. Hamas says it is holding more than a hundred hostages in Gaza. The group claims that this includes high ranking army   officers, but it also includes women. The elderly and children. Hamas says the hostages are now being held in locations across Gaza, which could   complicate Israel`s response to the militant groups attack. (END VIDEOTAPE) CHEN: Ten second trivia.  What is Africa`s largest river by volume?  Nile, Chobe, Congo, or Volta? Though the Nile river is much longer, the Congo river holds Africa`s record for amount of water flowing through it. The Kasai river and Angola is   Africa`s second largest river by volume and flows directly into the largest, which we just mentioned, the Congo. Supplying tens of millions of   people with fresh water. But until recent years, huge portions of it had never been documented by science, as part of Rolex`s Perpetual Planet   Initiative, Explorer Steve Boyes has embarked on a series of expeditions to discover and protect these river systems and the wildlife that depends on   them. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) STEVE BOYES, EXPLORER, NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY: The Eastern portion of the Angola Highlands water tower was previously known as the "terra do fim   do mundo," the land at the end of the earth by the first Portuguese explorers was the farthest place from anywhere, and it is. All we have is satellite imagery to look at and try and prepare ourselves for what we are going to do that day. But we are the first people to   document these river systems. And when I say document, we are establishing early 21st Century river baselines, ecological and hydrologic baselines.  I`m Dr. Steve Boyes, I`m a National Geographic Explorer and the project leader of the Great Spine of Africa series of expeditions. I`ve never   wanted to be anything else other than an Explorer, and a conservationist.  I gave up writing my master`s dissertation and for the next decade, my entire world was the Okavango Delta. I couldn`t think of anything else, I   never wanted to leave. So I went all the universities in the states around the world to advocate for the Okavango Delta to become a world heritage   site, UNESCO.  And that happened, but within three months, we were Angola. I kind of broken out of that. That`s -- you know, it has to become a UNESCO world   heritage site. And we went up to the sources. We were the first group to do so. We were told by all of the top scientists, geologists, psychologists,   that these were seasonally flooded wetlands. And when we get there, we find an ancient crystal-clear acidic source lake.  We see that that`s surrounded and sustained by peatlands. And none of this is known to science. We crossed the entire Okavango River Basin, all the   way into the Kalahari Desert, beyond the Okavango Delta followed the water to its end. Exploring this entire water tower structure.  Now, a water tire in this context, is not a wooden structure on top of a building in New York. It is a high-altitude, forested watershed, high   rainfall with high water storage capacity due to peatlands. It`s like a giant sponge. Now, that`s sponge is sustained by forests, protecting water   or creating rainfall, receiving rainfall and flushing it down into the peatlands that hold that water for thousands of years.  We`ve always wondered why Africa has the megafauna, why it has these great grand wildernesses, these great migrations. And it`s because these water   towers. Africa`s managed to weather these climatic oscillations that have happened naturally in the past through this water storage capacity that   naturally exists in these high-altitude sources. So these water towers are keystone to our future. They`re unexplored, un-surveyed, scientifically   misunderstood most of the time. And that is what we urgently chasing after in the great spine of Africa series of expeditions. This starts with   exploration, discovery and science. We need to understand the flows of these rivers. We need to understand the importance of, and nature of those   sources. And then we work with local people who are already our guides, through all of our expeditions, to protect those landscapes into the   future.  This new center of endemism is emerging a large-scale water tile that wasn`t known peatlands, that weren`t known, source lakes that weren`t known   are being documented for the first time in the 21st Century. This is early 21st Century exploration in reality. (END VIDEOTAPE) CHEN: Up next, we`re talking squash, not the vegetable, but the sport. The Los Angeles Olympic and Paralympic committee is proposing to add five new   sports in the 2028 games, including baseball, softball, cricket, lacrosse, flag football, and squash. If approved squash and flag football would make   their Olympic debut. The flag football you may know is a non-contact version of American football, which replaces tackling with defensive   players, removing the flag of the ball carrier and has been growing in popularity over the years.  The proposal to include these five sports into the 2028 Los Angeles games will be reviewed by the Olympic committee`s executive board in Mumbai India   on October 16th. So a lot could change before the Olympics in the next five years. The last time the Olympics were held in the United States was in   2002 when Salt Lake City, Utah hosted the winter games. We`ll keep you updated on all things Olympics headed into the 2024 and 2028 games.  And for today`s 10 out of 10, we`re giving you pumpkin to talk about Travis Kinger of Anoka, Minnesota won the 50th World Championship Pumpkin Weigh-  Off in Half Moon Bay, California, with an enormous orange pumpkin that caused quite the hullabaloo. The gorgeous gored way to whopping 2,749   pounds, and appears to have set the world record for biggest gourd. Kinger grows his gourds in the pumpkin patch in his backyard, and he calls this   one, Michael Jordan, go big or gourd home.  And now onto my favorite part of the day, I want to give a special shout out to Mrs. Harris 7th Grade class at Discovery Charter School in San Jose,   California. We see you, and we hope you and everyone watching around the world has a wonderful day. I`m Natasha Chen. And it`s been a pleasure being   here with you these last couple of days. END 

Date: 2023-10-13
COY WIRE, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  What`s up lovely people. Pump to be back here with you. It`s my daughter`s fall break this week. So I took a   couple of days too, to spend some quality time with the babies. But baby, I`m back, ready to rock. It`s Friday rise up.  Before we go creeping into the weekend, let`s end this week strong. We start with the latest news from Washington. Earlier this month, the U.S.   House of Representatives voted to remove Republican Kevin McCarthy from the top leadership position as Speaker of the House in an historic vote. The   movement to remove him was led by a small group of conservatives and was initiated by representative Matt Gaetz of Florida. Gaetz questioned the   former Speaker`s truthfulness, his ability to keep promises as well as his work across the aisle with Democrats to prevent a government shutdown. For   his part, the former Speaker has said he does not regret his actions and that, "doing the right thing isn`t always easy, but it is necessary."  The House now needs to elect a new speaker. In the meantime, representative Patrick McHenry of North Carolina is the interim speaker and he is   operating with limited power. So what happens next? Well, on Wednesday House Republicans nominated Representative Steve Scalise as their nominee   for the next speaker. But as of the recording of this show, the Louisiana Republican lacks the votes needed to win the gavel. And some Republicans   are worried that Scalise is facing a tough road to becoming speaker due to opposition within the ranks. Until a new speaker is elected, the House   remains effectively at a standstill, a situation that has taken on new urgency, amid Israel`s war with Hamas. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REP. STEVE SCALISE, (R) LOUISIANA:  I want to thank my House, Republican colleagues for just designating me as the Speaker. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Representative Steve Scalise is the GOP nominee for Speaker of the House. His former opponent is endorsing him.  REP. JIM JORDAN, (R) OHIO:  We need a speaker and Steve is the guy for that. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  But that`s not the end of the story. REP. STEVE WOMACK, (R) ARKANSAS:  It is unlikely that we will see a speaker today or this week for that matter. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Scalise needs 217 votes to become speaker. And some Republicans say they won`t support him. Representative Thomas Massie says   he knows at least 20 such people. For now, the House is effectively paralyzed with a key ally at war. REP. DON BACON, (R) NEBRASKA:  We need to support Israel right away.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Domestic matters need attention too. A new report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics looks at wholesale prices shows they`ve   been on the rise for three months in a row. That leaves businesses grappling with rising costs. Congress can`t magically stop inflation, but   it can stop a government shutdown from making things worse that requires passing a funding plan. But without a House speaker --  REP. DEAN PHILLIPS, (D) MINNESOTA, RANKING MEMBER OF MIDDLE EAST SUBCOMMITTEE:  We cannot provide a dollar. We can`t take care of Americans.   We cannot take care of Ukraine and we surely can`t take care of Israelis. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I`m Amy Kiley (ph), reporting. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Pop quiz, hot shot. It`s our 10 second trivia.  Do you remember what type of solar eclipse results in a "ring of fire" around the moon? Total, Annular, Johnny Cash or Partial? If you say annular, put your hands up. During an annual solar eclipse, the moon appears smaller than the sun and looks like a dark disc inside a   brighter disc. As we mentioned earlier in the week, a rare cosmic occurrence known as an annual solar eclipse is happening Saturday, the   14th, for millions of people located in the Western hemisphere. It`s set to start around 8:05 a.m., Pacific Time on the west coast of the U.S. and it   will end for the U.S. in Texas at 1:33 p.m. Central Time.  But don`t pull out your sunglasses if you want to see it because they are not strong enough to protect your eyes. Astronomers are encouraging   everyone to use certified eclipse glasses or handheld solar viewers.  Now lots of folks are just as excited for another awesome phenomenon set to occur in about six months` time on April 8th, that`s when there will be a   total solar eclipse crossing North America. Portions of the U.S. will experience a complete blockage of the sun.  All right, who thinks they`re good at multitasking? For example, can you, you know, pat the top of your head and rub your belly in a circle like   this? Good. Yes, can you do it? I have a tougher one. How about circle on the top of your head while brushing your teeth back and forth? Can you do   that one? That`s tough. Ultimate multitasking.  Anyhow, it turns out that many studies suggest most of us aren`t nearly as good as we might think we are when it comes to doing multiple things at   once. Research shows that only 2% of the population have the genetic gift of super multi-tasking and in a world where more and more things demand our   attention that can be problematic. CNN`s Dr. Sanjay Gupta spoke with a professor about the effects of multi-tasking as well as some tips on how to   manage our time and ability to focus. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT:  I think there`s this idea that you show up to the office or your desk, and you`re expected to be   head down and super productive for eight hours straight or more. But Professor Mark says that is not how we humans really operate. PROF. GLORIA MARK, COMPUTER SCIENCE, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, IRVINE:  Decades of research in the laboratory show that when people are shifting   their attention fast, which essentially is multitasking, it`s associated with higher stress. Another consequence is that we know that people make   more errors. What last consequence is it takes people longer to do something. GUPTA:  The idea of multi-tasking leading to happy efficiency is, is not true. You`re neither more efficient, nor are you more happy. You`re more   stressed, it sounds like.  (Voice-over):  But here is the problem, multi-tasking is such a huge part of how we`re all expected to work and live these days, it becomes a   necessity. So what to do?  What can people do to help them create a more attentive brain? MARK:  So many things we do on our devices are automatic. We see the image of our phone and we grab it without thinking. We see an email notification.   We immediately switch to email. The idea is to become aware of these unconscious actions to raise them to a conscious awareness. We can form a   plan for example, OK, I`m going to work 20 more minutes on this, right? So I`m going to work through to the end of this chapter, and then I`m going to   take a break.  Another technique is to practice forethought. What makes the most sense to me is to imagine my future self at the end of the day. So where do I want   to be at 7:00 p.m.? I want to be relaxing. The more concrete of a visualization we can have about our future self, the better we are able to   have control over our attention currently. The other thing is that we need to reframe how we think about scheduling our day. Being proactive and designing the tasks that you have to do based   on what your own personal rhythm is for when you are at your best, at your peak focus and save those times for doing those tasks that require the   hardest work and the most creative energy. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 on this Friday, the 13th, the ultimate Halloween costume, check out ARCHAX, a human piloted robot created   by Japanese startup company, Tsubame. It`s named after the flying dinosaur Archeopteryx. And it is ginormous. It`s standing 15 feet tall, weighing   about 7,000 pounds. It`s controlled with a couple of joysticks and a couple of pedals on the inside. And it has a full 360-degree view, thanks to nine   cameras on the outside.  So if you`re still looking for the perfect costume, maybe you can snag one of these robot machines. The company`s aiming to sell a few of them for   about 3 million, though their vision for ARCHAX is to be used for disaster relief and even space missions.  Today`s shoutout goes to Ms. Elliott`s class Century High School Eldersburg, Maryland, rise up. As you head into the weekend, my friends   know that our actions are influenced by our mental pictures. If there`s something you want to become, if there`s some way you want to be, see it,   believe it, achieve it. Remember you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2023-10-16
COY WIRE, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Hello, sunshine. Hope you had an awesome weekend, pump to be right here with you. There`s no mentum like   momentum. So let`s get our energy up, up, up, and start this week off strong. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we start today with an update on   the latest news on the situation in Israel and Gaza. Conditions in Gaza have deteriorated. On Friday, Israel`s military dropped leaflets on Gaza`s   largest city urging, roughly 1 million residents to move south for their own safety. Many people there have since been trying to flee ahead of an   expected ground invasion, but over the weekend, that`s proven to be exceedingly difficult.  We`ll hear more now about the current situation. And I do want to warn you that some of the material we`re about to see might be tough to watch.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Dozens of Palestinians dig through rubble, desperately searching for survivors in the aftermath of an airstrike. More than half of   Gaza`s 2 million residents who live in the Northern section of the Strip were told to evacuate, ahead of an anticipated Israeli ground assault on   Hamas. But leaving is also deadly. An apparent explosion Friday along a main evacuation route killed a number of people, including children. The   IDF says Hamas was responsible. LT. COL. PETER LERNER, SPOKESPERSON, ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES:  It appears that they have -- they`ve physically prevented people from moving from   north to south. And also it appears that they have booby-traps, some of the roads. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Even emergency crews are not safe from the constant barrage. Hospitals in the area already struggling are now overwhelmed. AVRIL BENOIT, EXEC. DIRECTOR, DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS:  We considered it a humanitarian chronic emergency over many, many years, and now it`s a   complete catastrophe. RICK BRENNAN, REGIONAL EMERGENCY DIRECTOR, WORLD HEALTH ORG.:  There are major gaps in food, water, shelter, sanitation. People now are being forced   into these unsanitary overcrowded settings, risks of disease outbreaks. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Lack of electricity, along with food and water shortages in both the Northern and Southern parts of Gaza are becoming very   real concerns. UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  I am searching here under the rubble for the remains of lentils and rice. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Many who have taken refuge in a U.N.-run school, sleep on the ground, and try to comfort their families. NAEEM ISMAE, DISPLACED GAZA RESIDENT (through translator):  It`s a tragedy. There`s no water, no electricity. And I have no money. I`m standing here   and hungry, wondering what`s left. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Palestinians who hold foreign passports are also in dire straits. The only remaining route out of Gaza is through Egypt.   Egypt`s Foreign Minister says the crossing is open, but the roads are so damaged. They are impassable even for humanitarian aid. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Up next, the folks in charge of the shipping industry have promised to cut down on their earth warming emissions and go carbon neutral by the   year 2050. Now, too much CO2 in the atmosphere is bad in then it can supercharge the year`s natural greenhouse effect warming the planet.  So going carbon neutral means the shipping industry plans to take steps, to remove the equivalent amount of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere to what   it`s emitted through their activities of their business. To do this, they`re looking at using cleaner fuels like electric and wind power as   opposed to burning fossil fuels. So many of the things we use in our daily lives are shipped across the ocean. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) STUART NEIL, DIRECTOR OF STRATEGY AND COMMUNICATIONS, INTERNATIONAL CHAMBER OF SHIPPING:  We`ve gone from rowing to sail, to sail, to steam, steam, to   the oil sector. And now we`re moving to a new transition. INGRID IRIGOYEN, PRESIDENT & CEO, ZERO EMISSION MARITIME BUYERS ALLIANCE:  Bells and whistles that can be put on ships. We also now have wind assist   technology. Our top priority right now must be the transition to the new zero emission fuels and technologies.  If you look around your home, the clothes that you`re wearing, the food that you put on the table, almost all of that has come across the ocean.   And at any given time, there is many as 50,000 large cargo vessels traversing the high seas.  In terms of the global pie, as we call it, for carbon emissions, maritime is only responsible for about 3%, which sounds like a small number, but   it`s actually -- if it were a nation, it would be equivalent to a major G-7 economy like Japan or Germany. And unfortunately, under business as usual,   those emissions are predicted to at least double by 2050. Decarbonizing the shipping sector can have great benefits beyond just reducing carbon emissions, reductions in local air pollution, lots of new   jobs, producing these new fuels. We also have the potential to address other issues like ocean noise pollution. NEIL: We need to look urgently at the efficiency savings that can be made, whether it`s wind propulsion, whether it`s bubbles on ships, hole, design,   even operating procedures. And these have multiple benefits. IRIGOYEN: Of course, these new wind propelled ships are different than the olden days. And there`s a lot of innovation happening in this space. There   are going to be some challenges because ports may need to make some changes to be able to accept these vessels, as they come into port. It`ll be   interesting to see about maintenance, making sure that these technologies are safe. But all of these challenges are surmountable.  Even if we did all of that, we would only be able to reduce emissions by about 50%. Shipping has benefited for a very long time from its ability to   use very inexpensive residual fuels that are essentially what`s left over after oil has been refined for other purposes. So it`s very polluting. NEIL:  The biggest issue is availability of zero emission fuels. There aren`t any on the market at scale. And what there are, are very small   amounts requiring an awful lot of electricity and the prices astronomical at the moment. IRIGOYEN:  Most commentators predict that in the future will have a mix of different fuels. As we look to the future, some people believe that ammonia   will actually be a really important, scalable fuel that can actually significantly come down in cost as we gain scale.  If we can address the safety concerns in the meantime, methanol is being deployed already now in very, very small quantities. And then in the longer   run, we`ll probably see electrification. We`ll see the use of fuel cells and perhaps some approaches that we haven`t even come up with yet. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia.  How old was the asteroid NASA collected material from back in September? 450,000 years old, four and a half million years old, four and a half   billion years old or four and a half trillion years old? If you said four and a half billion years old with a B, you are correct. That`s how old the asteroid is estimated to be.  Asteroids are on NASA`s mind, big time. NASA`s Falcon heavy rocket, lift it off Friday from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida for a colossal journey   of 2.2 billion miles or 3.6 billion kilometers. This mission is scheduled to happen over the next six years in the ultimate destination, a meadow   rich asteroid called 16 Psyche, which orbits around the sun between Mars and Jupiter. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  5, 4, 3, 2, 1, engine ignition, and --  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  A NASA spacecraft named Psyche embark on a 2.2-billion- mile journey. That`s 3.6 billion kilometers over the next six years. The destination, a metal rich asteroid named 16 Psyche that orbits the sun   between Mars and Jupiter. The asteroid whose diameter is roughly the length of Massachusetts will be the first metal space object that humans have ever   visited. Scientists hypothesized that Psyche was formed when a Rocky planet lost its surface after colliding with other bodies exposing the metallic   core. One could almost call Psyche`s mission, a journey to the center of the earth. Even though it`s an outer space. Since humans can`t drill a path to   Earth`s core, asteroids like Psyche may be our only chance to visit something like it. LINDY ELKINS-TANTON, PRINCIPAL INVESTIGATOR OF PSYCHE, ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY:  So we`re going to learn about when we get to psyche, a   previously unstudied ingredient that went into making our habitable earth, and that is the metal that is now in the earth`s core and the cores of all   of the Rocky planets, cores that we can never visit, but cores that we want to learn about. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The Psyche spacecraft is expected to reach the asteroid in 2029 and during its six-year journey, it`ll first cruise to   interplanetary space for several years, then slingshot from Mars into the asteroid belt. Before arriving at Psyche. It`ll then orbit the asteroid for   more than two years, taking images, mapping and studying the metallic object. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 let`s give him pumpkin to talk about Steve Kueny from Lebanon, Missouri, just set the record for   longest voyage by a pumpkin vessel by floating in this massive 1200-pound pumpkin, a whopping 39 miles on the Missouri River. The previous record was   37 and a half miles.  Kueny had to hollow out enough of the pumpkin to be able to squeeze into it in the kneeling position with his legs folded under him. Let the gourd   times roll. This journey lasted nearly 11 hours. That`s what I`m talking a boat, my gorgeous people. Today`s special shoutout goes to, Mr. Britain`s (ph) Social Studies Class. Snoqualmie Middle School in Washington, rise up. Thanks for subscribing and   commenting on our YouTube page for your shout out on my pumpkins. I`ll patch you later, people. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-10-17
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, sunshine. Terrific Tuesday to you. I`m Coy Wire. Thank you for spending part of your day with us right here on CNN 10,   the best 10 minutes in news. Today, we`re going to be covering a bunch of topics from the situation in Israel and Gaza to the Korean War. We`ll also learn about a girl who gets   paid more than 4,000 bucks a week to play the card game, UNO. That, and more right here on today`s show. We start with the latest on the war between Israel and Hamas. In Gaza, residents have been leaving their homes and evacuating south. Experts say   conditions there have deteriorated dangerously with serious shortages of clean water and food. That`s as tens of thousands of Palestinians attempt   to flee crippling airstrikes and an impending Israeli ground defensive. And the world is not just watching and waiting, but reacting. While many are coming out in solidarity for Israel, others around the world are showing support for the Palestinians in Gaza. These protests are   happening in U.S. cities, including Washington, D.C., Chicago, New York. And in Europe, including London and Frankfurt, stretches all the way to   Sydney, Istanbul, and South Africa.  Now, it`s difficult for me to report on and watch something of this magnitude and maybe it is for you too. So on Thursday`s episode, we`re   going to give you a behind the scenes, look at how we, here at CNN, report on what we`re seeing, and we`re even going to offer you some tools, for   managing this type of distressing news.  To help us out, we`ll have a very special guest and we cannot wait for you to see just for you here on CNN 10, where we tell you the what, letting you   decide what to think. Next up, do you ever wonder about the past lives of your parents or maybe even your grandparents? Well, my friend, CNN Anchor, Amara Walker, decided   to find out. She tells us how she got her father to share his childhood experiences during the Korean War. She says it changed her perception of   her entire family history and her heritage. History lesson of the day, the Korean War began on June 25th, 1950, the North Korean people`s army wanted to militarily conquer South Korea and   therefore unified Korea under their communist regime. It was also the first war that the United nations played a part in. In fact, when asked to send   military aid to South Korea, 16 countries sent troops and 41 sent equipment or aid. And Americans who participated in the action actually accounted for   90% of those troops. It was a three year bloody and brutal struggle that left millions from both countries dead, and created a refugee crisis that   swept up Amara Walker`s family. Here`s more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) AMARA WALKER, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT: During the Korean War, it was from 1950 to 1953, the communists were abducting young boys into the   communist army. My father remembers the conversation that his mother had with his brothers, and she told them to go escape into the local mountains   and to hide there until the war was over.  No one knew if they were going to see their loved ones again. There was so much more to learn about his history. We all want to know where we come   from, right? Technically, I can say I`m North Korean.  I grew up in Southern California and I really knew nothing about my roots. My childhood, I guess, was pretty normal. For an immigrant family, my   father owned a gardening business. He moved to America in 1974 and he never had a chance to ever go on vacation. I said, hey, what`s your bucket list   vacation? And he is like, well, I`ve been on YouTube a lot. And I`ve been looking a lot at Alaska. Oh, then let`s do it.  We were on this beautiful train ride through Denali National Forest. It was a glass car. This is a horrible photo. But this was inside the train. And I   just randomly asked, hey dad. So tell me about the war. He kind of was taken aback. I obviously don`t think he was expecting that question from   me.  He just started telling me, he was eight or nine years old. It was pure chaos. He said, Amara, I was running for my safety, for my life in the   middle of this war while bombs were flying and I was barefooted. Didn`t even have shoes.  My dad escaped down towards Seoul. That`s a long journey from what is now North Korea. His most vivid memory was being hungry as a child at night.   Like the noise, his tummy would make. I don`t think I had ever seen my father cry until that moment. You know, he was probably holding in all that   pain, that he never talked about with anyone else until Alaska.  That was really a pivotal moment in my life. I understand my father so much more now. You know, we -- I used to always be like, dad, you don`t ever   talk you`re -- you always look so stern. You`re always working, working, working. You always have a goal. And now I know why. He was able to leave,   come to America and build a life for himself and set up his children to succeed. He`s a survivor. I will tell my children when they`re of age,   their roots. So if you want to learn more about yourself, ask questions. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia.  What board game was patented on December 31, 1935?  Monopoly, Scrabble, Candy Land, or Chutes and Ladders? If you said Monopoly, you are correct. Although the rules had been created much earlier in 1903 by a woman named Elizabeth Magie. That`s a story that   had been lost for decades until recently.  Now, ever since games and puzzles have been big business. And for one lucky player, the game UNO has also meant a big paycheck for her. She`s earning   thousands of dollars each month to play the game she loves. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LITZY SANTANA, CHIEF UNO PLAYER, MATTEL: That will be game.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: OK, got it. SANTANA: Yes, yes.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is 22-year-old Litzy Santana. She just graduated from college a few months ago and now Mattel is paying her to play its new   game, UNO Quatro, with strangers on the streets of New York. SANTANA: You just won UNO Quatro, yay. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Her salary, $4,444 a week for only four hours per day. That`s almost $278 an hour. SANTANA: My job responsibilities as Chief UNO Player include one, having fun.  I don`t think you guys are going to beat me.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Wow.  SANTANA: That`s game.  Number two, explaining the games, the rules of UNO Quatro and then playing some UNO Quatro and hopefully winning a lot. JARED WATSON, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF MARKETING, NYU: So Chief UNO Player as a campaign is quite fascinating. Everyone says, wow, that is so much money.   It`s irrational to pay an individual that much to play this game. On the flip side, not only will they have the firm generated content, they`ll also   have multitudes of -- of consumer generated content all for the low price of about $18,000. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Litzy isn`t an influencer or a household name. She doesn`t have thousands of followers, but she landed the job anyways. Thanks   to an open call audition on You Guessed It TikTok. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You like playing UNO, you liked making money.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It`s a tactic on the part of companies like Mattel to draw on younger customers on social media.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh, and you should probably be friendly and have really good vibes. Because you`re going to be challenging Randalls to play with   Quatro. WATSON: When we think about an influencer, traditionally, we think about someone who has an organic following. SANTANA: And why should I be the first Chief UNO Player? Let me try make a launch real quick.  WATSON: The Chief UNO Player, they were not selected due to their role as an influencer, given that they were given a title from this company,   they`re given credibility. SANTANA: Here to tell you and give you the ultimate scoop on how to win UNO Quatro every single --  WATSON: Consumers are increasingly skeptical of brands in the marketplace, but having this intermediary, whether it`s an influencer, a creator,   consumers develop what are called parasocial relationships. They treat it like a real relationship. They say this person won`t lie to me. I trust   this person. SANTANA: 1, 2, 3, 4. Awesome. Love it. Thank you guys. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Finally, we`re traveling to the New York Comic Con known for its detailed and extensive costumes. It`s not uncommon to see fans cost playing   all around New York City. The New York Comic Con is an annual New York city fan convention dedicated to all things, comics. That includes everything   from graphic novels to anime, popular media and even video games. The convention was first held in 2006 and its north America`s most attended fan   convention.  Today`s special shout out is going to Mr. Hawk`s class at William Cook in Richmond, B.C., Canada. We hear you watch us every day as part of your   morning routine. And then write in journals about the core values of caring for yourselves, caring for each other and your community. That is   incredible.  And I want to give a shout out to all the educators out there with some teacher time Tuesday. Thank you for inspiring, uplifting and caring for all   of us. Students, give your teacher a handshake, high five or fist bump today and let them know, we see you. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-10-18
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, lovely people. It`s Wednesday, October 18th, I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, coming to you from San Diego today   where I`m interviewing absolute legend. I have to be enigmatic about it. So I can`t tell you who it is just yet. But here`s a clue, this person had a   video game created about them.  All right, let`s start this show today with an update on the conflict in Israel and Gaza. I know it`s been a lot to take in, so we`ll have a special   show tomorrow to talk about how this war has affected people on the ground, as well as people like you and me who are watching this all unfold. More   than 4,000 people have died since Hamas attacked Israel, nearly two weeks ago. Many of those deaths have been in Gaza, which is still under siege by   Israel following Hamas attack.  Israel announced last week that it would cut off electricity, food, water, and fuel to the Palestinian enclave. Tens of thousands of Palestinians are   trying to flee the violence. And many are calling for a ceasefire. As of Tuesday, that hadn`t happened today. President Joe Biden is in Israel to   show his support, but also to look for ways to ease the humanitarian crisis in Gaza. He`ll meet with regional leaders in the neighboring country of   Jordan, including Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, King Abdullah II of Jordan and Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi. Here is CNN`s John   Lorinc, with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JOHN LORINC, CNNRADIO ANCHOR (voice-over): As the war between Israel and Hamas escalates presidential Biden will meet with Israeli officials,   including Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Wednesday, according to Secretary of State Antony Blinken. ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: United States and Israel have agreed to develop a plan that will enable humanitarian aid from donor   nations and multilateral organizations to reach civilians in Gaza and them alone, including the possibility of creating areas to help keep civilians   out of harm`s way.  LORINC: Blinken adds that Biden will "reaffirm the United States` solidarity with Israel." That`s a stance agreed upon by the Senate`s   majority and minority leaders. SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER, (D) MAJORITY LEADER: I will be working with the administration on putting together an emergency supplemental that will give   Israel the tools it needs to defend itself. SEN. MITCH MCCONNELL, (R) KENTUCKY MINORITY LEADER: The surest way to stop violence against Israelis and oppression of Palestinians is to wipe   terrorists like Hamas from the face of the earth. LORINC: The 26 Marine expeditionary unit is headed to the waters off the coast of Israel. And the Pentagon is preparing U.S. troops for a potential   deployment to the country for medical and logistical support. But the Biden White House is still looking for a diplomatic solution. JOHN KIRBY, NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL COORDINATOR FOR STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS: The President still believes even for all this conflict, he   still believes in the promise of a two-state solution that the Palestinians deserve, their own state, a place where they can call home. LORINC: I`m John Lorinc reporting. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia. What planet is closest to earth when it passes by? Mercury, Venus, Mars or Jupiter? It might not be the closest on average,   but Venus` orbit brings it closer to earth than any other planet. Our next story, though, is about Mars. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Take a flight over a section of Mars known as the Labyrinth of Night. Noctis Labyrinthus is a vast system of steep   intersecting valleys. That is added steepest more than three times deeper than the Grand Canyon. Since 2003, the European Space Agency`s Mars Express   Mission has been closely imaging Mars` terrain with high resolution stereo cameras. The cameras have revealed information on Mars` landscape,   including mapping its subsurface and even its atmosphere. Noctis Labyrinthus, this is the length of Italy and was formed due to vulcanism   that stretched and cracked the surface to create the valley. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Whale, it`s time for an uplifting tale, a tale about a tale, a whale`s tale. Scientists have developed a new way to track these Marine   mammoths whales are mammals. Just like humans, they nurse their young and need air to breathe, to do that. They use blow holes on their backs,   producing those famous spouts that we see. And without those spouts, we wouldn`t have our next story as we`re about to find out it all started with   a cloud of whale snot. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DR. IAIN KERR, CEO, OCEAN ALLIANCE: Unlike Jurassic Park, if we lose these animals, they`re gone forever. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: For years, scientists have been attaching GPS tax to whales in order to monitor the population`s movements and wellbeing.  KERR: They have these incredibly talented groups of people in a small inflatable with a long pole, the tag at the end of the pole, and they`d get   close to the whale. The problem is the whale didn`t know what was going on. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It was potentially loud and even frightening for the animal. KERR: The act of collecting the data, we often felt could change the data. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Now, this team is trying something new, drones. But how could tagging whales with drones work?  Ocean Alliance is a Marine Mammal Research and Conservation group led by Dr. Iain Kerr, working out of an old converted pink factory in Gloucester,   Massachusetts. KERR: One day I got covered in a cloud of whale snot that was smelly and sticky, and I`m like, wait a minute. I smell an idea. We started our drones   for whale research program with a drone. We called SnotBot. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: SnotBot was partly funded by Kickstarter campaign featuring a purist, Sir Patrick Stewart. SIR PATRICK STEWART: Iain, what the heck is that? KERR: We`re really looking for ways to collect biological data without harassing the animals. And here comes our drones. We get that exhalation   and then we just drop the tag. And with these suction cups, it sticks under the back and the whale never knows. It`s been to the doctor.  When we look at whale snot, first of all, we`ve got DNA. Is it male? Is it female? Many species of whales were hunted to near extinction. Have we   reached a genetic bottleneck or, you know, are we OK? And then the tag is saying, how deep does it go? Where does it feed? How does it feed? It`s   been incredibly exciting because we`ve tagged a whale and then five seconds later it`s fed. So clearly the act of putting the tag on the whale hasn`t   affected the animal`s behavior. I was looking for a tool that perhaps could democratize ocean size. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thanks to 3D printing Ocean Alliance has been able to quickly iterate on their designs and make them easily accessible. CHRIS ZADRA, DRONE PROGRAMS MANAGER, OCEAN ALLIANCE: We`re just one group. We can`t go all over the world, and work with every single population of   whales. The more we could reduce this down into its simplest form that would make it sort of the easiest for other researchers to adopt. KERR: When you get out in the field, sometimes I just have to stop and take a breath. What an experience. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: By being able to tag and study whales without affecting their behavior, Ocean Alliance says we can truly see how humans affect the   animals and ecosystem in ways we couldn`t before. KERR: Fishing, pollution, noise. If we don`t understand the impacts on these animals, how can we mitigate them? (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: We`re literally in love with today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 from here, the nearby San Diego zoo, a baby tiger debut times two. Happy   belated birthday to two Sumatran tiger Cubs who explored their new habitat for the first-time last week. These siblings are looking good, feeling   good. The little tiger boy Hutan and the tiger girl Puteri are about three months old. And news of their recent birth is possum. The population of   Sumatran tigers is nearing catastrophic levels listed as a critically endangered species. Only an estimated 400 to 600 Sumatran tigers remain on   earth.  All right, meow, congrats to the winners of #YourWordWednesday, Mr. Dye`s class at Weston Middle School in Western Connecticut submitted enigmatic to   my @coywire social accounts. It`s an adjective meeting, mysterious and difficult to interpret or understand. Well done.  And thanks to all of you who are subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube channel for your shout out request today. We`re showing love to   those Panthers rocking that orange and black in east Pennsburg High School in Enola, Pennsylvania. I see you 717, rise up. Have an awesome day,   everyone. And I`ll see you tomorrow. END 

Date: 2023-10-19
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, lovely people. I hope you are off to an awesome day. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And for today`s show, we have a   special guest who`s going to help us learn about ourselves specifically about our brains, our thoughts and our emotions. The current conflict in   Israel and Gaza has had a deep impact on the hearts and minds of many. A lot of the images we`re seeing pop up on social media, stories we`re   hearing in the news. They`re really sad and upsetting, and the whole situation can make us feel worried, uncertain, and even angry at times   about what`s happening in our world. And those are completely understandable, justifiable, normal emotions to feel during situations like   this, but knowing that doesn`t necessarily make it any easier to deal with. So we wanted to provide you with some tools that maybe you can use for   yourself or for someone you know, who maybe is having a tough time dealing with bad news. And this might help you understand or support them better,   rise up.  It`s a privilege to introduce you now to my friend, our CNN Chief Medical Correspondent, Dr. Sanjay Gupta, who`s here for all of us. Great to have   you with us, Doc. DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Thank you, Coy and a heartfelt hello to all of you as well. It`s great to be here for this   really important topic. And as Coy said, if you`ve been following the news out of Israel and Gaza, chances are, you`ve seen some pretty disturbing   images. They may be tough to process, and you may be wondering this, what happens to your stress levels when you`re exposed to this kind of violence?   Well, here`s the truth. Even if witnessing all of this from afar, it can still have an impact on your brain.  Now, seeing a lot of these intense images and reading and hearing about violence can trigger your brain`s amygdala. The amygdala is the emotional   center of your brain, remember that. It can also send what would best be described as distress signals to the rest of your brain and your body that   can cause you to feel jittery, cause you to feel anxious. You could have something like stomach aches or headaches or things that are not even   seemingly related, but are in fact caused by the disturbing images you have consumed.  So what does that all mean? And how can we protect ourselves? I spoke to an expert who knows a lot about this. He knows about kids and coping and gave   me, and I hope you as well, some great words of wisdom. When something like this happens in the world and you are consuming the news, just like all of us are, what do you do to make sure you`re taking   care of your -- your mental health and your mindset at the same time as being an informed citizen? DR. STEVEN MARANS, HARRIS PROFESSOR OF CHILD PSYCHOANALYSIS YALO SCHOOL OF MEDICINE: I`ve learned to know what the signals are, that when I feel my   body responding and my sense of despair increasing. GUPTA: What are some of those signals, you know your own body well, what should people be looking for? MARANS: I think, you know, when -- when we talk about stress, it`s a big word to describe lots of very specific reactions that we may not even   register, except that it doesn`t feel good. We may actually find ourselves sweating or feeling more antsy and -- and agitated, fidgety, not -- not   able to -- to pay attention, not able to keep our -- our eyes on -- on the ball, that`s in front of us.  GUPTA: What do you recommend for -- for young people in particular who want to be diligent about saying my mental health is important and I want to be   proactive in taking care of it. MARANS: I think one of the first steps is to actually step back and realize what it is we share as human beings. There is strength in numbers and that   when we recognize that we are not alone. We are not the only ones who are feeling upset. And our upset is not a -- a demonstration of weakness, but   part of who we are as human beings. That actually allows for substituting, a feeling of helplessness with some very real, small, but critical ways of   taking action.  When we`re able to actually translate our vulnerability, what it is that makes us human into empathy identification with others, it actually allows   us to move from feeling isolated, to reaching out to one another, to actually reminding each other, that there are normal reactions that are not   pleasant, and that we are here for one another. GUPTA: Here is 10 second trivia.  About how long is the Gaza Strip? A hundred miles, 25 miles, eight miles, 42 miles? Well, Gaza is a narrow strip of land west of Israel with a population of around 2 million people. It`s around 25 miles long. And only seven miles   wide. That`s just over twice the size of Washington D.C.  While we watch this war unfold from home, there are students just like you living through this war. In fact, CNN 10 producer, Maya Blackstone spoke   with two siblings from Gaza, 11-year-old Mohammad and his older sister Afaf. More than a week ago, their family left their home in Gaza city to   stay in what they hoped was going to be a safer United Nation sanctioned hotel, which was nearby.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AFAF ALNAJJAR, GAZA RESIDENT: They moved us old to like the -- the lower floors of the building. We`re talking about 330, 350 people in the same   place. The hotel itself, the -- the windows shattered, the ceiling fell down. The last few days of staying in the hotel, we were out of drinking   water. And we were out of food. (END VIDEO CLIP) GUPTA: On October 13th, the Israel dropped pamphlets in Gaza, urging citizens to evacuate south, but that was hard to do. In fact, it took the   siblings and their family three hours to travel just 15 miles away to their grandparents` place. And the City of Khan Yunis. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) MOHAMMAD ALNAJJAR, GAZA RESIDENT: There`s a lot of stuff going on. Like the bombings they`re really loud and they`re really scary. Also the water cut   off and the electricity cut off. And that`s also pretty bad. (END VIDEO CLIP) GUPTA: Before the war, Mohammad was in primary school, the Seventh Grade, he was excited to join the robotics club. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) M. ALNAJJAR: I was like really excited because I had a lot of fun things that were going to happen. But then the war started and I couldn`t really   attend school anymore. (END VIDEO CLIP) GUPTA: 21-year-old, the Afaf had to cancel her engagement party last week. The war has separated her now from her fiance who is staying with his own   family. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) A. ALNAJJAR: You know, the -- the -- the receipts of the engagement ring, the whole, the -- the dress. So that was -- that was pretty devastating. I   still don`t really get a hold of my fiance. (END VIDEO CLIP) GUPTA: CNN 10 also spoke with 12-year-old Talia who lives in Holon. That`s a city in Israel, just a few miles to the south of Tel Aviv. Talia has   three older brothers. The oldest is a combat engineer in the military. In fact, he was at home celebrating the Jewish holiday Simchat Torah, when the   war began. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) TALIA PANETH, ISRAEL RESIDENT: Instead of celebrating with him, our holiday or holy day, one of the holiest days during the year, he was called his   base. He had 15 minutes to get ready. I was crying. My mom was crying. I couldn`t sleep. I barely ate. Everyone, even if doesn`t know someone who`s   dead or kidnapped, knows someone, but knows someone that is dead or kidnapped. And it`s such a scary feeling. Everyone is so anxious here. You   can`t really be happy every day when living in Israel, you need to be scared for the life. (END VIDEO CLIP) GUPTA: Talia , Afaf, Mohammad, they are all experiencing trauma. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) A. ALNAJJAR: We Palestinians do not want any bloodshed. We Palestinians do not want any war. We Palestinians do not want any loss of life on both   sides. M. ALNAJJAR: I hope that this war ends. And I also hope that maybe we could go somewhere safer.  PANETH: We are just kids. We can`t fight. We can`t do anything. It`s not a fault or of any innocent citizen, never from our side of -- or in their   side. (END VIDEO CLIP) GUPTA: We`ve heard from a mental health expert. We`ve heard from students living in Gaza and Israel. What about the people covering this war? Here at   CNN, we have reporters and producers and camera people on the ground, including my colleagues, Sara Sidner, she`s been reporting on the war from   Tel Aviv and Israel about 40 miles north of Gaza. And she wanted to share with all of you in class, how she and her team get their stories and what   life is really like when the cameras are off. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Sara Sidner has arrived in Tel Aviv. She`s on the ground. SARA SIDNER, CNN SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: I spoke with one of the family members of a hostage.  As those rockets were literally --  I`m here in Israel, on the Israel side of the border, covering the war between Israel and Hamas.  We`re in a really important place because of the equipment that you see behind me. That military equipment there, that doesn`t look like much. It   looks like kind of a rectangular box. That`s the iron dome, but it is probably the most important piece of equipment to save lives here in   Israel. No president since 1967 has recognized --  In 2012 and 13`, I lived in Jerusalem. I was here for work.  It has been pretty constant. We heard it early in the morning. But I`ve never seen anything quite like this, where Israel has actually officially declared war.  When you`re doing coverage of a war, you don`t sleep much. And it is pouring rain suddenly, which seemed like out of nowhere. And so when that happens, the crew has to figure out what to do. So they have   created -- just kind of creating a big thing to cover all the cameras. And this is -- this is Tel Aviv CNN temporary headquarters. We came in from New York. Averio (ph) and I, and my photographer came in from New York. We met with a producer who came in from London. They`re   basically a reporter that that is not on television. Their role is to help facilitate things and make sure that everything is ready and available so   that when you see me on television, all of those other things have been taken care of. So it is the best possible shot with the best possible   information that we can get to you.  60 hospital beds are now filled with victims from the Hamas attack. Mentally you prepare before you get into the country as you`re packing. So   you have to remember to get a helmet, to get a flak jacket. You have to sort of just get yourself in a very quiet place and very much pay attention   to what`s going on around you 360.  There are five incoming right now. Can you guys get me my helmet, please?  You have to do a lot of reading. You have to do a lot of studying about what`s going on, where things are happening, a and know a lot about the   country that you are in. And I don`t know about you, but I learn better when I`m there in person. And I get to see things and touch things that   feel things, and you make relationships with people. I have Israeli friends. I have Palestinian friends. I have friends who have -- have left   Gaza. When you get home, and you think about what could have happened, or you think about the images that are in your head. Um, the horrible things that   you`ve seen, those things tend to stay with you for a lot longer. At least that`s what I`ve found.  So talking to -- to someone professional, talking to your colleagues, your -- your family, it is really, really important. That`s how I deal with the   intense stress that comes from this.  But while I`m on the job, I`m -- I`m really focused on what I`m doing. So writing a story or interviewing someone or -- or talking to camera about   what we`ve seen and experienced and trying to get those stories out, it helps you concentrate and it doesn`t -- it doesn`t make your stress worse.   It actually helps you lessen your stress because you have a focus and a reason to be here. (END VIDEOTAPE) GUPTA: For today`s 10 out of 10, a lesson defined calmness. When your anxiety starts to build, it`s called paced deep breathing. Psychiatrist,   Dr. Gail Saltz taught me to take a five second inhale through the nose and then follow it with a seven second exhale through the mouth. Those extra   last two seconds of forced exhale are what actually lowers your heart rate and can immediately relax you. Do this 10 times, and it can quickly quiet   your stress response.  And that`s it for today`s special episode of CNN 10. If there are other topics you`d like to learn more about, let us know. You can add your   questions in the comments below this episode on YouTube. And before we go, today`s shout out, goes to my Alma Mater, the Novi High School Wildcats in   Novi, Michigan.  Thank you all for watching. I`m Dr. Sanjay Gupta, CNN`s Chief Medical Correspondent. Coy is going to be back tomorrow for a regular episode of   CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-10-20
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. It is Friday, October 20th, Friday. Remember what`s within influences what happens without, so let`s   get our minds right, and make this date great.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, where we tell you the what, letting you decide what to think. We start today with an overview of the headlines   around the world. First, we start here in the U.S. The House of Representatives is still looking for a new leader or Speaker of the House.   Representative Jim Jordan of Ohio was potentially going to be named speaker this past week, but after two rounds of voting Jordan failed to secure the   necessary number of votes in the House to win the gavel.  The House has been without a speaker now for more than two weeks after former speaker of the House Representative, Kevin McCarthy was historically   voted out. This means the House of Representatives remains effectively frozen, unable to take action on some very serious issues like funding for   Ukraine and its ongoing war with Russia and decisions that need to be made in regard to the war between Israel and Hamas.  Also, Congress faces a government funding dead deadline in November. There has been, however, in interim Speaker of the House, Patrick McHenry, but   his powers are very limited. Some Republicans are discussing though a possible resolution where his powers could expand until a new speaker is   elected so that some of the major issues I just mentioned can be voted on. Now for an update on Israel`s war with Hamas, the Islamist group classified as a terrorist organization by the United States, the European Union, and   some others, which attacked Israel nearly two weeks ago, Israel has agreed to allow first aid and other resources to enter Gaza, which is controlled   by Hamas through Egypt, which neighbors Gaza to the west. The hope is that first aid, food, and water can reach the innocence civilians who are   dealing with critically low levels of supplies. The absence of crucial aid has sparked protests around the world.  The World Health Organization says conditions are "spiraling out of control" for millions that have been effectively trapped in Gaza as Israel   controls the borders.  Meanwhile, president Joe Biden was scheduled to deliver an Oval Office addressed last night to make the case for sustaining wartime aid, to both   Israel and Ukraine as public opinion regarding U.S. assistance has been mixed. We`ll continue to keep you updated as these stories unfold right   here on CNN 10. Ten second trivia.  In what year did World War II end?  1914, 1918, 1939 or 1945? On September 2nd, 1945. Japan signed the formal surrender officially ending World War II. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This is believed to be the HMS Thistle, a sunken World War II British submarine. The wreckage was discovered in the spring.   Scientists found the wreck at a depth of more than 500 feet outside the Norwegian county of Rogaland. HMS Thistle last voyage was in 1940, when it   was sunk by a German submarine leaving all 53 crew members dead. It was discovered during a MAREANO Program Research Cruise examining the seabed. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Next up, a helium filled floating mode of transportation. Yes, helium, just like those birthday balloons. Helium isn`t flammable like   hydrogen filled glimpses of the past and a company called hybrid air vehicle says they`re new yet old school looking airship is perfect for   shorter regional journeys that can float about a hundred passengers at a time through the air at about 80 miles per hour. And they say it`s much   better for the environment than conventional planes. But does it make sense? And is it safe? Let`s learn more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) TOM GRUNDY, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, HYBRID AIR VEHICLES:  It`s a fast ship. It`s a high-speed rail of the sky lying at about 80 miles an hour. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  U.K.-based company hybrid air vehicles believes it has a solution for climate conscious travelers of the future. Even if it might   look like something from the past. MIKE DURHAM, CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER, HYBRID AIR VEHICLES:  It`s got a lot of heritage back into airships. There`s no doubt about that. It sort of   looks like one from some angles. So we`ve got a little bit of public hearts and minds to win over, but the reality is three quarters of it is standard   aviation technology. It just comes in a slightly strange shape wrapper. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Airlander 10 is designed for short tool and regional journeys. It`s filled with helium, which is more expensive, scares (ph) and   less buoyant than hydrogen, but is also safer as it`s not flammable. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It`s going to be about 300 feet long, longer than a 747, lift hundred passengers. GRUNDY:  Getting on board, you are going into a spacious cabin. There`s lots of light coming in. It`s quiet. You can open the windows. You can get   up and move around the cabin. Every seat`s accessible to the aisle, accessible to wheelchairs and people have more limited mobility. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  HAV Also claims the carbon emissions would be 90% lower than the equivalent journey on a conventional aircraft. GRUNDY:  Some of the early customers that have come to us have said, well, what about putting 16 people on board and taking them on overnight cruises   to get people, to pass the world that are really hard to get to it. And it`s done in a way that minimizes the impact on the environment you`re   going through. It`s the very first Airlander aircraft coming off the production line. We`ll be going off to do those sort of jobs in place like   the Arctic or on Safari.  It doesn`t restrict itself to operating from runways. All it needs is a relatively flat space and that space can be sand. It can be grass. It can   be water. So we can create new connections for people, getting them closer to where they want to get to. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Despite some previous setbacks, HAV states is the only company in the world to have successfully flown this type of aircraft, and   is working towards commercial production of the Airlander 10. GRUNDY:  Our plan is to be delivering at least 24 of these aircraft per year into the market from later this decade. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, pizza man, which has its roots, dating back a thousands of years, right? Drawing inspiration from   top flat breads eaten by the ancient Egyptians, Greeks and Romans, but the modern pizza, as we know it today with tomato sauce and cheese, well that   comes from Naples in the 18th century.  Now get ready for a story that`s as cheesy and saucey as your favorite pie. We`ve got the low down on a domino pizza delivery vehicle. You just can`t   miss. The Tritan A2 created in the eighties looks like it`s from outer space and it`s for sale. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This is Domino`s 1985 Tritan A2 two pizza delivery car. And yes, it`s up for auction. Only 10 of these rocket ship like cars were   ever made in the 1980s. And just a few survived today. The Tritan A2 was originally commissioned by the Founder of Domino`s pizza. It had customized   warming ovens in the rear to deliver pizzas around Ann Arbor, Michigan, where Domino`s headquartered.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Watch out SWAT 106. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: At the time, futuristic cars and space motifs where all the rage and pop culture. This Tritan for instance was built in 1985. The   same year that the blockbuster hit back to the future was released.  And in another blast to the past, it was Domino`s pizza that campaign staffers reached for when president Joe Biden, then a Senator announced his   withdrawal from the 1988 presidential election. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  -- withdrawal with Senator Biden will announce that he is quitting the campaign. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The Tritan A2 boast 80 miles per gallon fuel efficiency, according to Bonhams auction house, which sold a similar   Domino`s car in 2019 for nearly $45,000.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Domino`s pizza delivers. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Even the car`s current owner admits, though, it`s pretty terrible to drive and probably wasn`t that great at delivering   pizza, but it does look awfully cool. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  I had a pizza joke I wanted to tell you, but I won`t. It`s too cheesy. Our special shout out today goes to Friendship Heritage Middle   School, Lubbock, Texas. We see you. Thank you to all of you who have learned and laughed with us this week. And before we send you out, we`re   going to take a look back at the memorable moments we`ve shared.  Remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2023-10-23
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, sunshine. I`m Coy Wire. Welcome to CNN 10. Happy motivation Monday to you. Remember that there`s no such thing as   overnight success, the best musicians, artists, athletes, doctors, you name it, they become great only after years of study and practice. So as you   pursue your greatness, remember the story of the Chinese bamboo. It`s a seed that remains underground for four years, with nothing peek up above   the surface until in the fifth year, after being watered regularly, it`s now strong and suddenly it shoots up growing 90 feet tall in just five   weeks. Let`s keep growing y`all. We`re going to start today with news about the housing market. It might not be the best time for prospective home buyers to get a loan, to buy a home.   That`s because mortgage rates are nearing 8%. A mortgage rate is the percentage of interest that is charged on a home loan. Let`s break it down   by the numbers.  For an 8% interest rate on say, a 30-year loan of a hundred thousand dollars the total amount you`d pay over 30 years would be more than   $250,000. Interest rates changed with economic conditions. Prices have climbed for the past three months straight. And there were fewer homes on   the market in September than any September ever before. No wonder home sales just hit a 13-year low.  Unfortunately, prices are expected to stay high. Inventory is expected to stay low and rates could climb even higher. ICE Mortgage Technology says   that monthly mortgage payments on median priced homes are more than $2,500 up 91% from two years ago. And that housing is the least affordable it`s   been since 1984.  The last time home affordability was this tight interest rates were over 13% and the average home price was about three and a half times, the median   household income. We`ll keep you updated on the housing market right here on CNN 10.  Now pop quiz, hotshot. Ten second trivia, which of these weather patterns is a "warm phase" having weaker winds and warmer ocean water? Nor`easter, El Nino, La Nina or Derecho? El Nino, Spanish for the little boy is this irregular weather pattern that originates in the Pacific Ocean.  El Nino, a natural ocean and weather pattern in the tropical Pacific might shake things up for the U.S. this winter. It`s looking like some areas   might get a warmer, maybe wetter winter, but for those of us who love those snowy, wintery, wonderlands, don`t worry, though, we may be in for above   average temperatures this winter season, we`ll still get cold snaps. They just might not hit as often or hang around as long. More now from CNN`s   Karin Caifa. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KARIN CAIFA, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Winter will be wetter and warmer in parts of the U.S. Thanks to El Nino, a natural ocean and weather pattern in the   Tropical Pacific. JON GOTTSCHAL, NOAA CLIMATE PREDICTION CENTER: What typically can happen when in those cases is that the U.S. and Alaska is impacted by much more   air of Pacific ocean origin, which is generally warmer. CAIFA: That forecast, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration or NOAA. But Jon Gottschal of NOAA`s Climate Prediction   Center says you should still unpack the winter coats. GOTTSCHAL: There will be certainly periods of below normal temperatures. There`ll be those Arctic outbreaks. What we`re saying basically is more   that there may be less -- less of them and shorter duration potentially this year. CAIFA: And the snow boots. El Nino brings the potential for more precipitation, especially in the Northeast where it could deliver two or   three major snowstorms. And above average precipitation as rain, snow, or icy mix that`s forecast from the Plains to the Southwest could be welcomed   after a summer of extreme drought. GOTTSCHAL: Overall, it could be a very much a needed benefit relief for the drought conditions that are occurring in those areas. CAIFA: Looking back on hallmarks of recent El Nino winters, the 2018, `19 season saw the wettest winter on record for the U.S. mainland, according to   NOAA, and a very strong El Nino during the 2015, `16 winter contributed to the warmest winter on record for the U.S. mainland land. In Washington, I`m   Karin Caifa. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Next up, a method of farming that could potentially provide us with more nutritious crops while putting more money in farmer`s pockets. A lot   of big farms in the United States rely on pesticides to battle pesky weeds, bugs, and diseases that can ruin crops, but they`re not cheap. And maybe   there is a safer way to protect the crops that we consume. CNN`s Derek Van Dam went on a trip to Southern California to learn about something called   regenerative farming, a method from the past that just may become the future of farming. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DEREK VAN DAM, CNN METEOROLOGIST (voice-over): It was grown using what`s called Regenerative Agriculture. It`s farming practices, which are   centuries old, but getting new life, thanks to small farms like coastal roots here in Encinitas, California. ADAM MCCURDY, DIRECTOR OF FARM PRODUCTION, COASTAL ROOTS: This is what it`s all about. Look at that.  VAN DAM: Yeah, that`s fertile, fertile land here.  (Voice-Over): Regenerative agriculture is a guiding principle centered around this stuff, soil and its ability to repair itself. Thanks to what`s   already living inside of it.  (On camera): There is more microorganisms in this teaspoon of soil from this farm than there are people on the planet. Incredible. VAN DAM (voice-over): A few hours north at McGrath Family Farm, it`s plain to seat, the healthier the organisms, the healthier the crops. INLAKESH AMOR, LEAD FARMER, MCGRATH FAMILY FARMERS: And the more regenerative practice you do the healthier those organisms are. VAN DAM: These microbes are what gives soil its ability to grow food. Current methods, fertilizer, tillage, pesticides, just disturbing, the   soil, can kill these microorganisms and deplete the land. Instead Inlakesh and Adam are putting life back into their farm`s soil by rotating crops. So   old already harvested plants become the compost to feed new plants. AMOR: How are these dead sunflowers going to become food for, for the soil, right?  VAN DAM: Right.  AMOR: So these organisms helps break that down for plants. You -- you could see like the roots of the plants are -- are basically like our stomachs and   the more diversity of bacteria there is, the more organic matter, the healthier the plant is. VAN DAM (voice-over): And instead of using synthetic pesticides, Adam McCurdy is recruiting fowls. MCCURDY: Hey girls. They do a great job of eating pests (ph) and then leaving the deposit. So they`re preparing the soil. VAN DAM: McCurdy is practicing rotational grazing, where he carefully moves this livestock around from one crop to another to manage soil health. MCCURDY: So you see a crop that`s here. Once this is spent, we`re going to bring those chickens here. VAN DAM (On camera): Your chickens are going to come and help, you know, decompose that food. They`re going to fertilize the soil. In turn, you`re   going to create a new crop and wash prints repeat, right? I mean --  MCCURDY: Exactly.  VAN DAM: That`s awesome.  MCCURDY: Exactly. VAN DAM (voice-over): Not only is regenerative agriculture better for the planet by moving away from harmful pesticides and fertilizers, but food   grown this way can even be more nutritious, according to environmental scientists. It could also be more profitable for farmers in the long run.   One study suggests regenerative corn fields where 78% more profitable than traditional models. It`s a win-win. And so more farms and big businesses   like McDonald`s General Mills and PepsiCo are pledging to support and source from regenerative farmland. MCCURDY: Even those that are doing heavy tillage and grossing $200 an acre.  VAN DAM: Yeah.  MCCURDY: As opposed to intent expensive growing like this, if you`re doing it well, you can do $20,000 an acre.  VAN DAM: Yeah.  MCCURDY: $50,000 an acre. So they even started to say, oh yeah, preserve the microbes in the soil like granddad used to do. VAN DAM (voice-over): But the cost to switch farming methods can be high and it`s still not widely used yet. McCurdy thinks more research is needed   to upscale production and start systematic change. But he`s hopeful.  (On camera): Do you think that we can feed America with regenerative agriculture? MCCURDY: Absolutely. It`s a holistic approach. So it`s about holistic regenerative community nourishment and management. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is lit. This piece of literature was checked out of the Larchmont Public Library way back in 1933. And   whoever got this book, either forgot to return it, or they were just really into it. The library just recently got a package with the book inside   nearly 90 years overdue. You`d think that the late fees would be astronomical, right? Well, thanks to the library rules. The fine was just   five bucks. The book is called Youth and Two Other Stories by Joseph Conrad published in 1925.  A book fell on my head the other day. I only have my shelf to blame. Today`s special shout out is long overdue, Howard Middle School in Atlanta,   Georgia, rise up. We see you Brooklyn. We hope you and everyone watching around the world have a wonderful one. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-10-24
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up lovely people. It`s Tuesday, October 24th. Welcome to CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news. I`m Coy Wire and I am   pumped for tomorrow`s #YourWordWednesday. Follow me @coywire on Instagram, Snapchat, and TikTok, and put your unique vocabulary word in the comment   section of my most recent post with your school, mascot city, your teacher`s name, and we`ll choose one fun one to work into tomorrow show.  All right ahead of Halloween, I`ve got some sweet stories for you from trick or treat trends to the tail of duke, the dog. Plus, a spicy kicker.   But first we`re digging into debt and deficit. Both are growing in the United States, but where do the national debt and deficit come from? And   what`s the difference? Here`s CNN Jon Sarlin with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JON SARLIN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  America lives on borrowed money. That`s why the term debt and deficit get thrown around so much. Let`s first start with   our definitions. In a given year, a country will raise money through taxes and spend money on everything that a government spends money on. If it   spends more than it takes in, the difference is called a deficit. And the government has to borrow money to pay for it.  Now, this leads us to debt and not just any debt, but the debt. The debt is the total sum of government owes. In other words, a deficit is your dirty   dish from last night. The debt is your sink. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  In the United States, our budget deficit has recently soared reaching 1.7 trillion in the most recent fiscal year. That`s a 23% increase   from the previous year. To give you some perspective, the richest man in America, Elon Musk is worth 180 billion, according to Forbes, nowhere near   the U.S. deficit.  How much is a trillion dollars? Well, if you were to stack $1 bills on top of each other, 1 trillion of them would reach nearly 68,000 miles high.   That would be into outer space, almost a third of the way to the moon.  So what`s happening? According to a lead, U.S. economist Bernard Yaros more than 40% of the recent increase in our national deficit can be attributed   to lower revenues from taxes, more spending on programs, such as social security and Medicare also playing a part. As for our current national debt, it`s well over 30 trillion. Check out this interactive article on CNN`s website. Writer, Tami Luhby, compares   U.S. debt to snow. Starting with this small snowball in 1922, it represents 408 billion. Over the years, the debt snowball kept growing, literally   snowballing passing 10 trillion in 1998, and 30 trillion by the end of 2022, as the U.S. government spent more money than it collected. The   article puts that growing debt into perspective with this graph and breaks down the government`s spending for the fiscal year 2022, $6.27 trillion or   about $1.38 trillion less than it collected.  You can take some time to scroll through the article yourself to learn more about the deficit and debt. We`ll leave a link under this episode on our   YouTube channel. Ten second trivia. In addition to Halloween, which of these holidays will be celebrated next week? Columbus Day, Veterans Day, Dia de los Muertos or   Labor Day? Dia de los Muertos is a Mexican holiday extending over the first two days of November. And it honors the lives of deceased loved ones.  Who`s excited for Halloween? It`s the most wonderful time of the fear. And it`s one week from today. I`m so excited. I candy hardy wait. I`m not going   to wear my mullet this year, though, if I`m creeping it real. This is one of my favorite looks. My costume this year is eerie resistible, though.  A survey conducted for the National Retail Federation shows that the top costume picks this year for kids are Spider-Man, a Princess or a ghost. And   for adults, a witch, a vampire or Barbie, a majority of people said they will be handing out candy and about half planned to dress up or decorate.  The survey also found that Halloween spending could reach an all-time record high of 12.2 billion as more and more people are getting into the   spirit ready to party and trick or treat in full spooktacular, free pandemic style. Booya.  Now it`s time to meet another one of our CNN Champions for Change at a no- kill animal shelter that has the ambitious goals of rescuing every savable animal by the year 2025 and revolutionizing the way we treat and adopt   shelter pets. That includes fur babies like duke and the new best friend of CNN`s Jim Acosta. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JIM ACOSTA, CNN ANCHOR:  What you doing over here? As Harry Truman once said, if you want a friend in Washington, get a dog. I was coming out of my seven or eight years at the White House. I was suddenly burdened with some extra time on my hands and I thought, hey, time   to get a Dog. This is Duke. He is my rescue dog that I got from Best Friends. He was found in Arkansas. Mother was in an abandoned home. A lot of the times with these rescue animals, they`re coming out of pretty bad situations.  JULIE CASTLE, CEO, BEST FRIENDS ANIMAL SOCIETY:  Traditional animal sheltering has been around for 150 years. The status quo was we don`t have   a choice. It`s a necessary evil in our society that we have to kill these animals. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Oh, does that feel good? CASTLE:  Best friends really became the disruptor because they challenged the status quo.  ACOSTA:  Julie is a remarkable person. She started in 1996. She was employee number 17 here and became the CEO of this amazing organization.   What they`re trying to do is sort of transform the animal rescue pet adoption experience. ACOSTA (voice-over): Kanab, Utah this is where Best Friends basically runs their operations here in the Southwest. It`s a spectacular setting and it   makes it all the more welcoming and inviting as somebody who might be interested in adopting a pet. Go and see pigs and goats and horses. And we   saw, of course, we saw dogs and cats. There were turtles and parrots and cockatoos. I felt like Doctor Doolittle. ALI WASZMER, DOGTOWN DIRECTOR, BEST FRIENDS ANIMAL SOCIETY:  What we do here at the sanctuary is so incredibly unique, so we are able to help   animals that most other organizations cut in. These aren`t throw away animals. These are precious sentient beings that deserve a second chance of life. ACOSTA:  The Arkansas facility, can you describe that? CASTLE:  Bentonville was an opportunity to reimagine you`re walking into this bright, cool environment with a coffee shop and no cages. You can   participate in that lifesaving in a way that`s very similar to something like an Apple Store. ACOSTA (voice-over):  The Arkansas facility is important to me because that`s where I got my pet from. When you look at who`s going in. There, you   know, you see a lot of young people. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  All right, this one. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  This is Ariana. She`s two months old and two weeks. We`ve always been dog people. We just lost one and we really wanted to get   another. It`s -- it`s like a whole experience. I think when you come in here, you just tell they want you and the dog to be taken care of. ACOSTA (voice-over):  You`re trying to market this experience. Trying to transform the way people think about pet adoption that, oh, it`s a cool   place where you can go to pick up a pet. Back in 1984, when Best Friends got started, they tell us that there was something in the neighborhood of 17 million animals that were killed in   this country. Now they`re about 378,000 last year and Best Friends is the leader in that movement. They`d like to get to this place where the United   States is a no-kill country essentially by 2025. CASTLE:  The benchmark for no-kill is 90%. Roughly 10 percent of animals that are entering America shelters probably are too sick to be saved. So   it`s that 90% benchmark that we`re after. ACOSTA:  And you think it`s possible? CASTLE:  Absolutely. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Are you showing off? Yes. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s 10 out of 10, we`re kicking things up a notch. Or how about several million notches on the Scoville scale? This little guy called   pepper X officially holds the Guinness record for world`s hottest chili pepper. It rates 2.69 million Scoville heat units on average, and for   reference jalapeno peppers fall between 3000 and 8,000 units. The Scoville scale was invented by pharmacologist, Wilbur Scoville in 1912 to measure   the spiciness of peppers and chilies generally related to their capsaicin, the chemical that makes them spicy. Peppers are always so annoying. They   get Jalapeno business.  It`s time now for our shout out of the day, coming in hot Canon City High School in Canon City, Colorado. Go Tigers. You all know, I love this part   of the show and we`re about to make it twice as nice. You remember that our executive producer said that if our CNN 10 YouTube channel reaches 800,000   subscribers, I can start doing two shoutouts per show. And we`re almost there. We just need not 1000, not 2000. You guessed 10,000 more   subscribers. So let`s go, looking forward to seeing those #YourWordWednesday submissions @coywire. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. And you   are awesome. END 

Date: 2023-10-25
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello lovely people. Welcome to CNN 10, and welcome to Barclays Center in New York city. I`m here because fanatics, the   digital sports platform is teaming up with a nonprofit Make-A-Wish, which grants wishes of children with critical illnesses. And three youngsters are   going to meet their heroes today. Tom Brady, Aaron Judge, and Jayson Tatum. And I can`t wait to share those moments with you soon. Remember, you can be   a hero to someone too, even if it`s just making someone smile today.  All right, let`s get to the news. We start in Brazil where a record drought is drastically affecting waterways in the Amazon jungle. On Monday,   researchers recorded water levels where the Rio Negro and the Amazon river meet and found the water had dropped to its lowest levels ever recorded.   These rivers in tributaries, which means they flow in and out of lakes and streams creating the normally lush jungle ecosystem we`ve come to love.  Hundreds of thousands of people depend on these tributaries for fishing and transportation. And to get key supplies into their remote villages, many   boats and floating houses are now left stranded. The region is in its dry season, but the Brazilian government says the Amazon has seen the least   rain from July to September in more than 40 years. They say the El Nino weather pattern, which we learned about here on CNN 10 earlier along with   global warmings intensifying heat are to blame.  Wildlife is also feeling the pain. Earlier this month, researchers found over 100 dead dolphins, suggesting water temperatures were the cause. The   low river levels and high heat brought the water temperature up to nearly 100 degrees Fahrenheit. That`s how hot, hot tubs are. These boto or pink   river dolphins, they`re so cute, right? Well, they only live in fresh water throughout south America. Researchers and activists have been trying to   move the dolphins to cooler waters, but say the continued drought will only make things worse.  Ten second trivia.  Which of these was the last mission to have people on the moon? Apollo 11, Apollo 13, Apollo 17 or Apollo 19? Apollo 17 is your answer here. And as part of that mission in 1972, astronaut Gene Cernan was the last person to walk on the moon.  The moon has been Earth`s constant companion for more than 4 billion years. And it`s been a constant source of discovery for science. A new study   suggests that the moon is even older than we`d originally thought about 35 million years older. And a crystal called Zircon is at the heart of this   discovery. To take a step back, we know that scientists believe the moon formed when our solar system was in its early chaotic days, where rocks were colliding   and our earth was forming. A proto planet called Theia crashed into earth, flinging off a large rocky piece, which became the moon. The energy from   that impact created a molten lunar magma ocean that eventually became the moon surface.  Two years ago, scientists used modeling to understand how that ocean cooled and thought the moon was 85 million years younger than we`d believed. But   incomes, new technology, geophysicists who studied natural resources like oil, gas, and minerals used Atom Probe Tomography that takes a moon   material, sharpens off samples. And like a pencil sharpener then works like an hourglass to push those samples through a spectrometer, to see how fast   they move. That speed showed that the samples were made of zircon and zircon is one of the oldest known solids, meaning the moon must be the same   age, 4.46 billion years old. Those lunar samples were collected way back in the 1970s by the Apollo 17 astronauts. And they still teach us things   today.  Here`s more now on those incredible Apollo missions. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: 600 million people watched Neil Armstrong take those famous first steps on the Moon.  (OFF MIC) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But after the Apollo 11 astronauts return to earth, public interest in later Apollo missions began to fade.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh, here`s -- we`ve had a problem.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But the people who continued to tune in were treated to some pretty special moments. Astronauts took advantage of their unique   surroundings to have a bit of fun. During the Apollo 17 mission, Eugene Cernan and Harrison Schmitt sang their own rendition of the fountain in the   park. JACK SCHMITT: I was strolling on the Moon one day --  JACK SCHMITT & GENE CERNAN: -- in the merry, merry month of --  GENE CERNAN: May. JACK SCHMITT: December GENE CERNAN: No, May. JACK SCHMITT: May. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The classic jumping photo, it may have been attempted at the last wedding you attended.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Come on out here, give me your photos. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Well, during the Apollo 16 mission, astronaut Charles Duke captured John Young in Mida (ph) while saluting to the flag. CHARLES DUKE, ASTRONAUT: OK, here we go, a big one. Off the ground one mor. There we go. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It`s since gone down as one of the most famous Apollo photos ever taken.  When they weren`t taking epic pictures, Duke and Young got to drive around in a Luna Rover. The electric buggies were used on the last Apollo   missions, 15, 16, and 17, and provided astronauts a fast way to cover large distances, helping them make more scientific discoveries than they could on   foot, or just to do a bit of joy riding. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I thought the ride was real sporty. It bounced a lot. Sometimes both front wheels were off the surface. The back end is like   driving on ice and breaking loose occasionally, but it was a lot of fun. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Back in the 16th Century, Galileo taught his students that objects fall at the same rate regardless of their size or mass. That   is if they`re not restricted by any resistance from the air. DAVID SCOTT, APOLLO 15 COMMANDER: Well, in my left hand, I have a -- a feather. In my right hand, a hammer. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Well, since the moon has virtually no air to breathe Apollo 15 commander David Scott decided to test this experiment by dropping   a feather and a hammer from the same height, low and behold, they did in fact hit the ground at the same time. SCOTT: How about that? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And just for a little fun, Alan Shepard brought the head of a 6-iron and a couple of golf balls aboard Apollo 14. The head was   modified so he could attach it to an instrument that collected rock samples. (OFF MIC) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That should have gone probably on the earth, maybe 30, 35 yards. But that little rascal went over 200 yards of a one hand shot   like that. And it was in the air. The time of flight was almost 35 seconds. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Perhaps the most enduring images are the ones when the astronauts actually looked back at earth, this one taken on Apollo 17. The   last time man was on the moon. It`s known simply as the Blue Marble. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story, getting a 10 out to 10, if you still got pumpkins to carve, don`t reach for that kitchen knife just yet. Did you know that   around half of all Halloween related injuries come from our creativity gone wrong since pumpkin carving catastrophes can be a quotidian experience this   time of year. We have a couple of tips just for you. Check it out. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JOSEPH GALBO, U.S. CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION: Probably the most surprising stat around Halloween related injuries is that almost half of   the injuries are related to pumpkin carving.  So now I`m going to show you how to carve a pumpkin safely. First tip, we want to make sure you`re carving your pumpkin on a firm flat surface. So   we`re just going to make sure this table is nice and firm, which it is. A lot of people carve their pumpkins at home on kitchen tables. If your   kitchen table`s wobbly, for any reason, you don`t feel like fixing your kitchen table, which I totally get, try a work bench or really a kitchen   one.  Now, a lot of people think, oh, this is a great pumpkin carving tool because it`s rigid, it`s short. It`s easy to hold in your hand. The problem   is, as you`re stabbing it into the pumpkin, your hand can slip. And we do see a lot of injuries happening in that way.  So this is an actual saw. Probably not the best thing to use if you`re carving a pumpkin with kids. Then we start getting into some of what I like   to refer to as the death or danger zone of pumpkin carving. And we`re not going to recommend you ever use scissors to carve a pumpkin. You should   never be carving a pumpkin with a razor blade. You should definitely never be carving a pumpkin with a giant carving knife.  Use the proper carving tool. So here we have our carving kit. This is the exact type of tool we want to see people using. You could run it across   your fingers. Nothing`s going to happen to you. But look how well it cuts a pumpkin. Doesn`t get any better or easier than that. We`re going to keep it   classic today, because my skill level is 4 out to 10. So we will be doing the classic Jack O` Lanterns. On the safety pumpkin carving scale, I`m out to 10, 100% out to 10. You always want to make sure you`re carving away from yourself as opposed to   towards yourself. And that way, no matter where anyone is standing, you`re cutting in a safe direction with a safe blade. No one`s going to go to the   emergency room. You know, save yourself like a thousand bucks or something. The ER is so expensive these days.  We never want to see people using real fire, real candles in their pumpkins. We won`t start a fire here at CNN either. That`s can knock them   off the tables, kids can bump into them. Somebody`s costume can get a little bit too close. This is perfect. It blinks. So make sure you use an   LED light in your pumpkin and everybody will have a great safe, happy Halloween. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: All right, thanks to the Patriots in Ms. Ryan`s class at Hazel Park in Michigan. You submitted the winner of #YourWordWednesday. Quotidian, an   adjective, meaning occurring daily or ordinary and every day. Well done.  Our special shout out today is going to the Wolves of Lake Ridge Middle School in Woodbridge, Virginia, rise up. Thanks for spending part of your   day with us right here on CNN 10. We`ll see you tomorrow. END 

Date: 2023-10-26
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Good morning. Good afternoon. Good evening. Wherever you are in this world. Let`s go ahead and smell of flowers and   cool the soup. Get our minds right, so we can dominate this day. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news.  We start today with news of the new speaker of the house. Republican Congressman Mike Johnson was voted in on Wednesday becoming the 56th   speaker of the House in U.S. history. He represents the Fourth District of Louisiana, serves on the Judiciary and Armed Services Committee. He has a   solidly conservative voting record. He also supported efforts to overturn the 2020 election.  The House of Representatives had effectively been on pause for 22 straight days without a speaker. After Kevin McCarthy was historically voted out of   the position. There were three unsuccessful votes to find a replacement. But now the House can get back to work. One of Speaker Johnson`s first big   challenges will be to pass a spending bill, as without one the government will run out of money on November 17th.  Speaker Mike Johnson is now third in line for the presidency of the United States behind President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris.  Our other top story of the day takes us to Acapulco, Mexico, a major tourist destination and home to some 800,000 people. Residents are now   enduring Hurricane Otis, the strongest storm on record to hit this area of Southern Mexico.  Wednesday morning, Hurricane Otis began as a tropical storm, but accelerated to a Category 5 in just 12 hours` time. The storm`s rapid   intensification was among the fastest on record. That burst of power gave people a little time to prepare. When we produced this show, the impact of the storm was not yet clear, but reports had indicated that the storm had knocked out all communication. For   the latest on this storm, you can head to CNN.com. Ten second trivia. Yamoussoukro and Abidjan are two capital sites of what African nation? Ivory Coast, Ethiopia, Rwanda, or Gabon? Officially the Republic of Cote d`Ivoire Ivory Coast is your answer here.  We take you now to Ivory Coast, a country in West Africa, between Ghana and Liberia. It is the world`s top cocoa producing nation, as well as the top   cashew producing nation. And it has one of the fastest growing economies in Sub-Saharan Africa. But the Southern City of Abidjan is dealing with a   problem. Trash is piling up, especially plastic. We`re about to learn why and how some locals and creative business leaders are finding ways to use   that trash to make and save some cash. CNN`s Zain Asher has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ZAIN ASHER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: On the edge of Abidjan in the Ivory Coast, waste is being dumped every day. Most of it, plastic. Hundreds of workers   in the country have long collected waste to sell on the informal market. But now informal workers like Martine San say the process is being   formalized through industrialized recycling circuits, where she`s guaranteed around 16 cents per kilogram. MARTINE SAN, PLASTIC WASTE COLLECTOR (through translator): We used to collect waste without knowing who we could sell it to. There were no real   outlets, but since we`ve started with this structure, things are better. We are always paid within the week for what we bring back. Since we have this   structure, I have enough money to pay for my children`s school and to feed my family. Sometime I even manage to save a little. ASHER: Experts, say the move towards formalizing a circular economy for waste in the Ivory Coast benefits the economy at large. According to   UNICEF, only 5% of Abidjan`s waste is currently recycled. KOPIEU GOUGANOU, INSTITUTE OF CIRCULAR ECONOMY ABIDJAN: In the last few years, it`s developed to the point where we produce fuel from recycled   plastic. There are young startup that have launched this, and it`s something to promote. With plastic, we can also make furniture or tables   and benches for school children. The trash that used to cause us problems must now be seen as a local opportunity. ASHER: From fuel to furniture entrepreneurs across the country are finding the best ways to utilize plastic trash. One Columbian company, Conceptos   Plasticos has that big on building the circular economy in the Ivory Coast. They`ve built entire schools out of recycled plastic bricks saying the   bricks are 40% cheaper than traditional building materials and are more solid. 30 employees at the company`s Abidjan plant sort, crush, mix and   transform plastic into these bricks. Selling them primarily to programs, run through NGOs like UNICEF. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Our business is not to sell bricks. Our business is to have innovative solutions around circular economy. ASHER: Even though Africa only produces around 5% of the world`s plastic, it`s the continent that`s most affected by plastic waste. Until 2017, Asia   was the primary destination for the world`s plastic waste, largely generated by Western countries. But many Asian countries began taking   action against imported plastic.  In the Ivory Coast, the production import and marketing of plastic bags has been banned since 2013, though, the application of the law has been hard to   enforce. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: On Tuesday, dozens of states from California to Georgia to Maine filed a lawsuit against Meta, the parent company of Facebook and Instagram   and all of our students out there today are at the heart of this case. The state attorney`s general say that Meta is contributing to an adolescent   mental health crisis, arguing that the company designed Facebook and Instagram to be addictive. They say these platforms give the, "false   promise that meaningful social connection lies in the next story, image, or video and that ignoring the next piece of social content could lead to   social isolation."  Now, Meta issued a statement saying it has over 30 tools to support teens and their families, and that they`re willing to work with agencies to   improve the user experience. But Meta, along with other social media companies like Snapchat and TikTok are infer more legal battles as they   face dozens of similar lawsuits from states like Florida and hundreds more from private individuals. That`s the what, we`ll let you decide what to   think.  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is emblematic of teamwork makes the dream work. Exhibit A, these are starlings swarming, each individual bird   sinking its movements with the others, creating a mesmerizing display of poetry in motion ornithologist, scientists who study birds believe the   patterns they create help the birds confuse and allude predators. Well, these patterns inspired the drone operating artists in our next story to   light up the nighttime sky above central park this past weekend. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RALPH NAUTA, DRIFT CO-FOUNDER: We started our studio in 2007. We were studying bird behavior at the time. Immediately, we thought, how cool would   it be if we would take that movement of birds, but have it tangible in the sky. And that merged into what you see behind us.  So behind us, you see a thousand drones in their docking stations. Every box has like six drones. It looks kind of like your basic drone, but it`s   specifically developed for this application. LONNEKE GORDIJN, DRIFT CO-FOUNDER: Today, we`re flying a thousand drones. It`s the biggest performance that we have done so far. And we were so happy   to secure the first permit ever in Central Park to fly drones. This is one system, it`s thousand drones that`s that all are connected. And -- and with   one press on the bottom, they come in the air.  Really our goal to bring people with lots of different backgrounds and different moments in their life together in this moment. And that everyone   relaxes and gets tuned into the same frequency. The art piece is called Franchise Freedom. It`s for us to understand that in society, we have to make sacrifices to function together as a social   structure. If you look at birds swarms, you know, in our mind, it`s this most free flying beautiful organic shape, but in reality, it`s really like   based on very specific rules. For me, that is what this swarm represents. It`s this collective body of individuals functioning as a group to be the   most sufficient, beautiful outcome of multiple cultures and different people coming together to be the best version of itself. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Shout out to all of our bright shining lights out there. You know, American poet, Henry David Thoreau once said, it`s not what you look at   that matters, it`s what you see. Let`s make it a great Thursday. Or as we like to say, Happy Friday Eve. Today`s shoutout is going to the Jaguars at   Blue Springs South High School in blue Springs, Missouri, rise up. I`m Coy Wire. And we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-10-27
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up lovely people. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, pump to be here with you today. It`s Friday, rise up. We`ve learned   and laughed together this week. Now let`s lock in and finish this week strong.  We start today with an update out of Mexico, where residents are dealing with devastating damage caused by Wednesday`s Category 5 storm Hurricane   Otis. Trees were uprooted, buildings smashed, roadways were blanketed under several feet of water. Thankfully Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez   Obrador said, there were, as of Thursday morning, no casualties reported.  The local power utility says nearly 500,000 homes and businesses lost power though. And communication lines are down, making it hard for authorities   and rescue operations to get a handle on the true extent of the damage. Video we have shows widespread destruction with a big impact to the local   economy.  Acapulco located on the Southwestern coast of Mexico was once considered the Pearl of the Pacific in the 1940s and 50s. It was a major American   vacation destination for tourists and celebrities alike like Rita Hayworth. But it diminished slowly over time due to overcrowding and crime. However,   its tourism industry has been on an upswing hosting, Mexican and European travelers recently. To protect this city, residents and authorities laid   major preparations ahead of the storm. But as we mentioned in yesterday`s show, the storm quickly turned brutal very, very quickly and even caught   meteorologists off guard. Let`s turn now to our own meteorologist Derek Van Dam. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DEREK VAN DAM, CNN WEATHER ANCHOR:  The storm struck in the dead of night. It gave very little warning, very few weather models that meteorologists   looked to actually picked up on the rapid intensification that it actually went through. In a 24-hour period, it was impressive. It took advantage of   a very narrow swath of ocean water temperatures at about 88 degrees Fahrenheit. And that`s significant because four rapid intensification to   carry on, it actually needs to be 80 degrees or higher. And it found just that water and strengthened rapidly 165 miles per hour. This is the first   Category 5 landfall to impact, the Eastern Pacific. The strongest storm to strike the Pacific coastline of Mexico and the fastest 12-hour rapid   intensification for this area. It is that 12-hour window where it rewrote the history books rapidly intensifying by 90 miles per hour. But the   overall picture in a 24-hour period, 115 mile per strengthening, that is incredible mind boggling to be quite honest. Acapulco, not only a tourist   destination, but it has a residency of about 1 million people. So with a direct hit like this over a major metropolitan area, we`re starting to see   the first visuals of the damage that was left behind not only by the wind, but also the storm surge. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten second trivia.  What great desert covers large portions of China and Mongolia? Mojave, Gobi, Arabian or Sahara? Meaning waterless place, the Gobi desert is your answer here. And it`s actually not very sandy at all. It`s covered mostly by fair rock.  We take you now to the Gobi desert in China. On Thursday, China launch the Shenzhou 17 spacecraft carrying three astronauts. The youngest of which was   only 33 years old. They`re headed to the Tiangong space station where they`re going to live for six months and do some repair work, flying   debris, damaged the station solar panels. China`s been putting its missions to space in high gear for the past 20 years or so. And now is in a space   race rivaling the U.S. and Russia. CNN`s Marc Stewart has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MARC STEWART, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  From our spot here at the Jiuquan Space Center in the Gobi desert, we just watched China`s latest   entry into space, a rocket carrying three astronauts to China`s space station. Take a look at the launch. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  3, 2, 1, ignition. STEWART:  It`s a mission that comes at a time when there`s no cooperation between the American and Chinese Space Programs. Since 2011, the U.S. has   effectively banned NASA from working with China and space leading to a 21st Century space race. Chinese officials stress they`ve never saw hegemony   space, but once the international space station is retired, China`s Tiangong space station may take on new prominence. China`s space program is   ambitious, having landed a Rover on Mars and a future goal of a man flight to the moon. Marc Stewart, CNN in the Gobi desert in Northern China. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is all about making wishes come true. This week at Barclays Center in Brooklyn, seven times Super Bowl   Champ, Tom Brady, New York Yankee Slugger, Aaron Judge, and Boston Celtic Superstar, Jayson Tatum made wishes come true for a handful of children,   battling critical illnesses. Organized by fanatics the global digital sports platform, which announced it has become official sports partner for   the nonprofit, Make-A-Wish. The smiles on the faces were proof that the day was a big hit in a world was seemingly lots of bad news lately. This day   was a reminder that there`s so much good that needs to be shared too. So we wanted to share these moments with you.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  What did this mean to you today to see all these smiling faces out here? JAYSON TATUM, BOSTON CELTICS, NBA:  It meant the world. You know, we get asked a lot of -- to do a lot of things and nothing more rewarding or   inspirational at being around kids and kids that, you know, have challenges, but you know, continue to fight and, you know, as much as we   inspire and motivate them, they do the same for us. So, you know, when I got asked to do this, you know, I was super excited to be here today. WIRE:  When I look through your social media, I see pictures with you and your hero, Kobe Bryant. And now you`re that guy. So what`s that mean to   you? TATUM:  It`s -- it`s crazy because, you know, I`m not that far removed from there. Like, you know, I`m 25. So, you know, I still feel like a kid   sometimes and, you know, I was excited to see Tom Brady today, right? So I felt like a kid. But, you know, seeing the smiles and how genuine their   reactions are, you know, that`s the best -- best feeling. WIRE:  I -- I was not excited to see Tom Brady, cause I played six years for the Bills. He called me out. Catching passes, Coy, you never caught   one. All right, man. So what message do you have for kids out there who are going through a tough time? How do you persevere and come out on the other   side a little bit? TATUM: I think, you know, it`s tough, right? It is -- it`s very tough. But you have to continue to fight, stay strong, have a good support system. I   have good people around you that care about you like these kids and their families. Seeing them here with their friends and brothers and sisters and   parents. You know, it`s great to see them, have a support system because you need that regardless of how old or young you are. A support system is   big. WIRE:  I know you came here to inspire some kids, but how inspired were you today by seeing them? AARON JUDGE, NEW YORK YANKEES, MLB:  Wow, these, you know, these kids were talking about, hey, you`re our hero. You know, we`ve been waiting to meet   you. And I was like, no, you guys are my hero. Like the -- the strength you show on a daily basis, you know the smile you have, you know, whatever   you`re going through, it`s -- it`s truly inspiring. So get a chance to come out here and have some fun, you know, throw a couple pitches, have them hit   a couple homers off me and just enjoy a special day. Definitely won`t forget it. WIRE:  Why did you hit a home run off that one kid? I mean you just jacked his. JUDGE:  You know, you got to you got to have a little fun with him. He was giving me a couple, you know, pitches down the middle, but he -- he   returned the favor once we flipped it, he was -- he was sending him to the seat. So we had some fun. WIRE:  I love that. What do you hope these kids take away from today? JUDGE:  I just think -- I just hope it`s a great memory. You know, they -- they share the rest of their lives, you know, getting a chance to come out   here and, you know, you`re hanging out with Tom Brady, Jayson Tatum, like it`s -- you`re out here. I`m, you know, the Barclay Center, it was just a   special, special day that, you know, hopefully that, you know, whatever they`re going through, whatever happens, you know, they can always look   back on this day and bring a smile to their face. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  I said it earlier this week and I`m going to say it again. Never underestimate the power you possess to make this world a better place. Even   if this just making someone smile today.  Now, one of the wishes we just saw was for Colin Stern. What`s up Colin. We`re showing you some love and your Saddlebrook High School in   Saddlebrook, New Jersey. Our final shout of the week though is going to Wellsburg, Virginia, Brooke High School. Go Bruins, rise up. Remember you   are more powerful than, you know, I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END 

Date: 2023-10-30
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, lovely people. Hope you had an awesome weekend. I got to carve some pumpkins. I got to meet some of you like Rufus   and Conrad at the old Fourth Ward Skate Park here in Atlanta, tearing it up. Fall is in the air. Halloween is tomorrow, and I`m ready to rock this   week with you.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we do have to begin with some heavy news, an update for you out of Israel and Gaza. This weekend, Israeli ground   forces entered the Gaza Strip in a new phase of fighting in this three- week-old war. The Israel Defense Force or IDF said, they`re bringing in infantry, armor and engineer units. Israeli Prime Minister, Benjamin   Netanyahu said, this is an all-in attempt to destroy Hamas and free over 200 hostages. The hostages were taken during the deadly October 7th attack   on Israel by Hamas, the militant fundamentalist Islamic organization operating in West Bank and Gaza.  Israel also ramped up airstrikes over the weekend with many Palestinians saying it was the most intense destruction scene to this point. On   Saturday, Prime Minister Netanya warned of a long and difficult war ahead. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator):  Our heroic fighters have one supreme goal, to destroy this murderous enemy and   ensure the existence of our country. We always said, never again. Never again is now. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  While the IDF says Gazans who had moved south would be in a protected space. The World Health Organization said communication lines are   down, making any further evacuation suggestions or aid impossible. On Sunday, the Israeli military says more aid trucks will enter Gaza soon.   Many around the world, including Pope Francis are calling for a ceasefire. As aid agencies say humanitarian conditions for those caught in the   crossfire are desperate and deteriorating. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) PHILIPPE LAZZARINI, UNRWA COMMISSIONER GENERAL:  As we speak, people in Gaza are dying. They`re not only dying from bombs and strike. Soon, many   more will die from the consequences of siege imposed on the Gaza Strip. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  In a statement, IDF said, war planes hit 150 underground targets Friday and said airstrikes and ground forces are aiming their efforts at   destroying Hamas basis. One major area of concern is that those bases are extensive throughout civilian areas, often close to, or even under homes.   Even hospitals. Here`s CNN`s Tom Foreman, to explain more on Israel`s planned attacks. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  The result of all of this, well, we`ve seen some of the video of that and it`s really quite a sight to see in some   cases, whole buildings gone and other places hold blocks gone. These Israelis have insisted that what they`re doing is trying to target military   assets. Although that may include, for example, the home of a Hamas leader, where there may be a lot of people involved. There`s a hospital in which,   Hamas says, well, that`s a hospital. The Israelis say, yeah, it`s a Hamas base hiding in a hospital. That sort of thing. Going after the entrances to   tunnels. The tunnel network there is a big deal going after command-and- control structures.  If you look at an overall satellite map of the area, you can see that in the Northern part here, this is where most of this has happened. This is   where most of the population lives. Every little orange dot there represents one of the strikes that we know of. There`s been talk of Israeli   troops coming into this area as well.  What it all adds up to is really, as we said, at the beginning, an extraordinary military assault on this area. Yes, Hamas has still tried to   fire some missiles out striking Israel. Some of them have struck. That seems to be greatly reduced as this tremendous military pressure comes into   this area. And we wait to see what might come next. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  This weekend, it looked like someone took a giant bite out of the moon in what`s known as a partial lunar eclipse. People in Europe, Africa,   Asia, and Western Australia saw it best. But if you were here in the U.S. on the Eastern coast, you may have spotted it too. A lunar eclipse only   happens when we have a full moon. We also call that a Hunter`s Moon, which may have gotten its name as it once warned hunters to prepare for a cold   winter. Many of you may remember, we learned all about solar eclipses on CNN 10, a few weeks ago. That`s when the moon passes between the earth and   sun. Well, for a lunar eclipse, they switch positions. Can you guess how? Here`s CNN`s Rachel Crane to help us out? (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RACHEL CRANE, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  A lunar eclipse is when the moon passes through the Earth`s shadow. This only occurs during a full moon. Two   factors decide which of three possible eclipses the moon will experience. The tilt of the moon`s orbit around the earth and which of the Earth`s two   shadows, the moon falls behind. The Earth`s darker inner shadow is known as the umbra, and the lighter outer one is called the penumbra.  The penumbra eclipse is when the moon passes through, you guessed it, just the penumbra. NASA says this type of eclipse is so subtle that if you   didn`t know it was happening, you might not even notice it. A partial eclipse is when the moon only gets covered by part of the Earth`s umbra. So   only part of it is shaded in darkness by the earth, a partial eclipse happens at least twice a year.  And then there`s the big one. The total lunar eclipse. These are rare often separated by years and require the moon earth and sun to be in perfect   alignment. But don`t think this blacks out the moon, as the moon shifts deeper into the umbra, it takes on a red hue, which is sometimes called a   blood moon. The moon turns red because the atmosphere is filtering out color at the opposite end of the visible spectrum, the blue light. The   short-wave lengths of blue don`t travel as far as the long red wave length. So they scatter before reaching our eyes, leaving behind the red glow.  Not everyone on earth can see a lunar eclipse at the same time. You`ll need to be in an area facing the moon during the moments it`s shaded by earth,   unlike a solar eclipse, you don`t need any special equipment to enjoy a lunar eclipse. They`re safe to watch at any stage. Although a pair of   binoculars might make it more fun. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. During which stage of sleep does most dreaming occur? Stage 1, Stage 2, REM, or ROM? Meaning Rapid Eye Movement, REM sleep is the deep sleep phase where the brain is most active.  Ah, to nap or not to nap? That is the next question. Sometimes we just feel like we need a midday slumber, right? Or maybe a lot of times we feel that   way. Of course, there is a time and a place for everything. Don`t go falling asleep on your teacher or teachers don`t go falling asleep on your   students.  Did you know that one-third of adults in the United States take a nap during the day? That`s according to the Pew Research Center. Well, CNN`s   Dr. Sanjay Gupta says a little siesta might be more helpful for our brains than we might think. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VICTORIA GARFIELD, RESEARCH FELLOW, UNIVERSITY COLLEGE LONDON:  There`s a bunch of experimental American studies. And what they looked at was   essentially whether people who napped versus didn`t nap, had any cognitive benefits. These studies showed that it looked like people who took a nap   did have better cognitive functions. So their thinking skills improved, whether that be things like how quickly you process things, your memory,   those sorts of thinking skills. So the biggest takeaway is that we found very clear effect of having a regular daytime nap on the total size of the   brain. DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  The study found that people who had regular naps saw an objective difference in brain   size compared to those who didn`t. We know that as we age, our brain shrink and that can be associated with cognitive decline. And what she`s   fundamentally saying is that people who napped regularly in many ways had younger brains than those who didn`t.  (On camera):  Is there a right length of a nap? And is it possible to sleep or nap too much? GARFIELD:  One of the issues that that people say often you sleep for too long in the day. As you wake up feeling groggy, you wake up feeling worse   and that`s because you`ve gone into deep sleep. Your brain is preparing and mimicking that sleep at night and think you`re now ready to sleep for the   rest of the day. So in order to avoid that, we`ve been quite conservative and said, well, maybe something up to about 30 minutes.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Wake up lovely people. It`s time for today`s story getting a 10 out of 10. Check out this emperor penguin chick, trying to emerge from a shell   at SeaWorld San Diego. It has a beak malformation. So curators helped it out. On September 12th, this tuxedo baby became the first emperor penguin   to be born at SeaWorld San Diego in a decade.  Now, that`s a pengwin. The endangered emperor penguins are native to Antarctica. They can grow to be more than four feet tall and way up to 90   pounds. This young is now growing strong, eating lots of fish, even drinking fish milkshakes. I always thought that penguin ate iceberg crisp   or even burritos.  We hope you have an ice day. We don`t know what would we do without you. I`m penguin to think that I`ve taken this punty far enough.  Our first shout out of the week is going to The tigers at Red Oak Junior and Senior High in Red Oak, Iowa. It`s your moment, so own it. I`ll leave   you with this, for those of us out there, feeling a case of the Mondays. Remember what happened the last few days doesn`t matter. And what may or   may not happen in the days to come doesn`t matter, either. Right here, right now, that is where the magic can happen. Rise up. I`m Coy Wire. And   we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-10-31
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up sunshine. Terrific Tuesday to you. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. And we`ve got a rendezvous with the best 10 minutes in   news. We start today with an update on union strikes here in the U.S. Headlined by the United Auto Workers union. After 41 days on strike,   workers at Ford are slowly heading back to work. They`ve reached a tentative agreement with the Ford Motor company after negotiating an 11%   raise right now with 25% increases over the next five years. Workers will also receive cost of living adjustments, which they`d given up during the   2007, 2008 recession, which crippled car companies. Cost of living is a calculation that figures out how much money it takes to cover things like housing, food, and healthcare, and those costs rise just   about every year. There are still 29,000 auto workers on strike at General Motors and Stellantis. But sources tell CNN that deals may be close there   as well. This has been the longest auto strike in 25 years. Ford Chairman, Bill Ford said these strikes have hurt the company`s ability to invest in the future. That pain is felt most in the fast-growing   electric vehicle market. Automakers in the U.S. are facing stiff competition from Chinese companies who can make electric vehicles at around   half the cost of U.S. and European manufacturers.  Let`s zoom out now for a wider view and take a look at what`s happening in many different industries. The number of workers going on strike from   healthcare workers to actors has recently skyrocketed. One of the main reasons new technology and the race to adapt and adjust to it. With more on   that, here CNN`s Jon Sarlin. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LIZ SHULER, PRESIDENT, AFL-CIO:  I`ve never seen anything like this in my lifetime. JON SARLIN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Over 450,000 workers have joined a strike in the U.S. this year. More than tripling the number from   2021, according to Cornell University`s Labor Action Tracker. While action in the U.S. labor movement is still short of historical peaks, data shows a   dramatic increase in the number of workers on strike from what the nation has seen for decades. LINDSAY DOUGHERTY, SECRETARY-TREASURER, TEAMSTERS LOCAL 399:  We`re going to wars with employers that have declared more on workers. SARLIN:  Kaiser Permanente just field at the largest strike the U.S. healthcare industry has ever seen. Meanwhile, Joe Biden became the first   sitting president ever to join a picket line, standing alongside United Auto Workers as they make history confronting all big three automakers,   General Motors, Ford, and Stellantis simultaneously. UAW is seeking pay raises, job security and other benefits. ORLANDO RAMSEY, CHRYSLER EMPLOYEE, UAW MEMBER:  And that`s not right to work at a job and still get the same pay for 15 years. We`re working two,   three jobs to even make needs meet. And you shouldn`t have to do that in the United States.  But we have given up so much for the CEOs of the big three. For the last decade to make over a quarter of a trillion dollars. We`re asking to get   our fair share and our just do. SARLIN:  Beyond wages, the threat of technology is also fueling the auto worker`s strike as the industry pivots towards electric vehicles and has   been a focal point in Hollywood where Guilds have attempted to stop artificial intelligence from replacing writers and actors in the industry. DOUGHERTY:  It`s concerning because it`s at a rapid pace. And it`s obviously something that these companies are looking forward to because   it`s profitable. But again, like workers just want a piece of the pie. They want to be able to just survive again. SARLIN:  Despite this momentum, the Bureau of Labor and Statistics reports that the rate of union memberships across the country continues to trend   down, with the percent of unionized workers falling from just over 20% in 1983, down to nearly 10% in 2022. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. Talking royalty now. At which of these British landmarks would you see the crowning of a king or queen? Buckingham Palace, Tower of London, Westminster Abbey or St. Paul`s cathedral? If you said Westminster Abbey, put your hands up. It`s been the coronation location for every single British Monarch since the year 1066. Today King Charles begins a four-day visit to Kenya where among other things, he`ll bring attention to environmental protection by visiting one   of Kenya`s national parks. Kenya is one of 56 members of the British Commonwealth, a group largely made up of former British colonies.  The   British colonized Kenya in the early 1900s, attempting to capitalize on the countries, many natural resources.  Kenyans rebelled and gained independence in 1963. But tensions still linger after that decades long fight with varying opinions about King Charles   visit among residents. CNN`s Larry Madowo has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  King Charles lands here in Nairobi, Tuesday, just weeks before Kenya marks 60 years of independence from the   British. President William Ruto has called it an honor for Kenya to be the first for King Charles to visit and Queen Camilla, in the Commonwealth. But   ordinary Kenyans are divided, its symbolism here and the value of this trip.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I`ll be so excited if I see him, of course. And it`s a good thing that he`s visiting Kenya. Yeah, so I`m looking forward to   that. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I just don`t care. Yeah. I just don`t care. Like I`m not really bothered that much about that. Yeah, I really don`t care. What   is he coming to do? MADOWO:  King Charles will be walking in the footsteps of his mother. Queen Elizabeth learned what she was here in Kenya, 1952, that her dad had died   and she would be Monarch. But during the same 1950s period, the British colonial government violently cracked down on the Mau Mau rebellion against   colonial rule. Thousands of Kenyans have believes have died, and some Kenyans want an apology, a full accountability for that colonial period and   reparations. NDIRITU MUREITHI, KENYAN POLITICIAN AND ECONOMIST:  What he should be doing is apologizing. And what he should always have been doing is paying   reparations for the misery, for the deaths and for the havoc that was visited upon the people of Kenya. MADOWO:  There is renewed anticolonial sentiment all across the African continent. In Cape Town recently, the Dutch King, Willem-Alexander and his   wife Queen Maxima encountered protestors from indigenous group demanding accountability for the colonial period in South Africa. King Charles has   packed schedule here in Kenya from a state banquet hosted by President Ruto, to meetings with creatives and young entrepreneurs to visits to the   U.N. office in Nairobi to highlight climate change and conservation issues here.  It`s his first big swing at rebranding the Commonwealth, which was really his mother`s pet project. Hoping to set aside all the colonial baggage and   chat a new path, a new relationship, not just here with Kenya, with all of these African countries that used to be part of the empire and hoping to   move that forward. Larry Madowo, CNN Nairobi. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  It is almost time for some tricking and some treating, but a lot of us out there better be ready to bundle up. You can`t spell Halloween   without low and mother nature`s bringing some low temperatures this year. Here`s CNN`s Allison Chinchar with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Trick or treaters are in for quite a shock this Halloween, as a large swath of cold air plunges down from Canada   into the U.S. Now, the good news, that same high-pressure system bringing the cold is also going to keep it dry for many trick or treaters. The cold   air will start to hit the Midwest on Sunday, spreading into the Ohio Valley on Monday. And then the Mid-Atlantic and areas of the Southeast, just in   time for Halloween.  For example, on Monday, Birmingham, Alabama will have a high temperature near 80 degrees. But just 24 hours later, the high temperature will barely   make it to 60 degrees. The West Coast is the real winter, however, this Halloween, with near normal temperatures and nice and dry for trick or   treating. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  We`re giving you pumpkin to talk about for today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, and we`re going to get through this last story swiftly.   Artist, Janette Parris took pumpkin art into new eras. Meet Taylor Swiftkin, a gorgeous masterpiece of a pumpkin leaving trick or treaters   enchanted. Paris has been making pumpkin art for 35 years styling the likes of Hillary Clintkin, Donald Trumpkin, even Vladimir Putkin for Taylor   Swiftkin, though, Paris even paid a tiny little tribute to NFL Star, Travis Kelce. Well played.  Eat your heart out Swifties. This pumpkin weighs 400 pounds. So in your wildest dreams, you can make about 200 pumpkin pies.  All right, time for you to help write the show. Your vocabulary word in tomorrow`s show for #YourWordWednesday. Follow me @coywire on Instagram,   Snapchat, and TikTok. Put your word, definition, school and a teacher`s name in the comment section of my most recent post, and we`ll choose a   winner to work into tomorrow`s show.  We want to give a spooktacular shoutout today to Cumberland High School in Cumberland, Rhode Island. Go Clippers. Happy Halloween, beautiful people.   Remember stay safe, stay smart, most importantly have fun. I`m Coy and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-11-01
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up sunshine. Hope you got more treats than tricks last night. Happy Halloween. This year is flying by it`s Wednesday,   November 1st. I swear it feels like just yesterday. It was October. It`s the start of a glorious galette of holidays. Let`s make it a wonderful time   of the year. Shall we?  We start today with pop quiz, hot shot.  Ten second trivia.  Caracas is the capital of what South American nation? Venezuela, Peru, Columbia, or Bolivia? Caracas is the capital of Venezuela located in a valley within the Andes mountains.  Venezuela, where we take you now is once one of the wealthiest countries in South America. And did you know that it says on the world`s largest oil   reserves, but for the past 15 years or so, the economy has been in shambles and that has added to why many Venezuelan have been fleeing. In the U.S.   that has contributed to a migrant crisis. In August alone, the Department of Homeland Security said, it encountered more than 55,000 migrants from Venezuela, Cuba, and Nicaragua at the Mexico   border. So, what has happened to Venezuela`s economy and where does all of this leave everyday Venezuelans? CNN`s Stefano Pozzebon explains. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) STEFANO POZZEBON, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Hundreds of thousands of migrants enter in the U.S. are from Venezuela. But this country`s economy collapsed   in 2014, almost a decade ago. So what is causing these later spike right now? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Venezuelan among the top nationalities of migrants arriving in the U.S. POZZEBON:  Venezuela was once one of the richest countries in South America, but it never recovers since it enter recession in 2014. When the   price of oil and other commodities are plummeted in 2015, Venezuela`s revenues dried up almost overnight. And the entire country basically went   bankrupt. Inflation was rampant and most of everyday goods were impossible to find. Since then, the socioeconomic crisis has not improved under the government of authoritarian leader Nicolas Maduro. And research shows then more than   80% of the population here, still leave below the poverty line. While they may not have all headed to the U.S. between 2014 and 2020, more than 4   million Venezuelans left the country, according to the United nations. Right now, more than 7.7 millions leave outside of Venezuela. And that is about 25% of the population. To give you an idea, it`s like if the entire   population of California and Texas left the U.S. in less than a decade. In the last few years, a growing number has started moving north directly towards the U.S. southern border through the Darien Gap, a dense stretch of   jungle that connects the South America and Central America.  Social media has also played a significant role because more and more people are documenting their trip and posting it on the likes of Facebook,   WhatsApp, Instagram and TikTok. Informal migrant networks and businesses that help people just at the beginning of the journey have also sped up the   pace of migration. More than 400,000 people have already crossed the jungle as of September this year. And the largest group are from Venezuela.  Currently, there are over half a million Venezuelan migrants in the U.S. This month, the White House has starting deporting Venezuela migrants might   enter the country illegally, directly back here to Caracas. Political change in Venezuela is not happening anytime soon, with months deposition candidates bar from running for election. And over 270 political   prisoners are still behind bars. Countries in the region are saying that they`re looking for conservative solutions to handle this historic   migration flow. But as long as Venezuela remains in such dire straits, this emergency only since destined to continue. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Now, we continue our coverage of AI, Artificial Intelligence. Developments in the world of AI are happening fast. The hope is that it can   spur innovation in health science and technology. The fear is that it might harm national security, replace human workers and upend entire industries.  Monday President Biden unveiled an executive order to address concerns over safety. Executive Orders are signed into law by the president bypassing   congressional approval. But they`re far less powerful than congressional laws because they can be challenged in court and canceled by future   presidents. Let`s turn to CNN`s Mike Valerio, to learn more about what this order contains.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MIKE VALERIO, CNN NEWSOURCE NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  So today matters because this is the first set of federal regulations governing artificial   intelligence that have been made. But there are still huge challenges ahead.  (Voice-over):  Artificial intelligence technology is advancing rapidly. And the federal government is scrambling to keep up.  JOE BIDEN, (D) U.S. PRESIDENT:  I`m about to sign an executive order. The executive order, that is the most significant action any government   anywhere in the world has ever taken on AI safety, security and trust. VALERIO:  The White House unveiling, a sweeping new executive order Monday aimed at mitigating the risks of AI while also harnessing its potential. BIDEN:  To realize the promise of AI and avoid the risk, we need to govern this technology. VALERIO:  According to the Biden administration, the order will require all AI developers to share results of their safety tests with the federal   government. Before they`re released to the public, compel companies to notify the government if an AI model in development poses national   security, economic, or health risks, ease immigration barriers for skilled workers to study and stay in the U.S., establish standards to prevent AI   production of dangerous biological materials, and develop best practices to minimize the risks of AI displacing human workers. Among a number of other   key concerns, Harvard`s Bruce Schneier says getting AI regulation right, is critical.  BRUCE SCHNEIER, HARVARD KENNEDY SCHOOL:  They`re not freewheeling technology, they`re more like pharmaceuticals. You get them wrong and   people die.  VALERIO:  He says, AI has the potential to transform the way we live and work for the better. If the technology is kept in check. SCHNEIER:  This is going in the beginning of a very long and national process, but it`s to start, it`s an important start.  VALERIO:  Now, just one more important point to stress, this is an executive order. This is not a law governing artificial intelligence. The   Congress is hosting ongoing hearings through the rest of the year to talk with experts and figure out the best ways to create legislation, to put up   guard rails for artificial intelligence. That`s latest here in Los Angeles, I`m Mike Valerio.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a coyote trying to absquatulate from an airport. Police on the prowl for a coyote in its howl   at an airport in LA on the runway dodging planes. Who would win the race of this wild and frantic chase of a coyote on the loose. Here`s CNN`s Jeanne   Moos. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT:  At least this coyote is smart enough to look before crossing a runway, turns out it was running   away from the airport police at Van Nuys Airport in Los Angeles. A chopper from KCAL was stopping by to refuel when it captured the coyote chase.  We couldn`t tell if the police were beeping. What we do know there was no roadrunner in sight. We can`t tell you much of anything about the coyote   that did not introduce itself.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  My name is Cayote, Wile E. Coyote.  MOOS:  So our wily reporter can do is play comical chase music, and what the video roll. Coyote sightings here in the San Fernando valley are so   common. There`s a Facebook page devoted to them with posts like, "Coyotes in my house. Two coyotes, just walking to my house through the garage. Dogs   scared them away." It was the police vehicle`s mission to scare the airport coyote away. Unlike Wile E. Coyote, airport coyote did not end up flattened. A   spokesperson for Van Nuys Airport told CNN we are happy to report that the coyote was able to find its way safely out. Ready for departure subject   only to its own, coyote control. Jeanne Moos CNN, New York.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, congrats to @amani2626 from Prairie Trail in Olathe, Kansas. You are the winner of #YourWordWednesday for absquatulate, a verb   meaning to leave abruptly. Well done.  Before I absquatulate on up out here, our first school shout out of November goes to, the Mavericks, the Mighty Mavericks in Mrs. Rams (ph)   class at United Middle School and Laredo, Texas. Thank you for the epic shout out on TikTok. And thanks to everyone who submitted vocab words.   You`re making us smarter, words, use them. I`m Coy Wire. And we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-11-02
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, beautiful people. Happy Friday eve. It`s Thursday, November 2nd. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10, where we tell you the   what, letting you decide what to think.  I`ve got some great stories for you today. But first let`s talk about the holidays. Halloween is over. People are getting into the spirit -- the   spirit of spending the holidays are an important time for retailers. Many of them rely on spending in November and December for as much as 1/5 of   their annual sales or more.  And according to a new survey from Deloitte, holiday spending may bounce back big time and even surpassed pre-pandemic levels. Even though shoppers   face ongoing inflation, and some are paying off student loans for the first time in years, shoppers are expected to drop an average of about $1,600 for   holiday-related purchases. That`s 14 percent more than last year. But the survey says many consumers are expecting to receive half as many gifts as they did a few years ago, due to rising costs. The majority of   people who responded to the survey also said they do their shopping after Thanksgiving to make the most of Black Friday and Cyber Monday deals.  But let`s all remember that we don`t need to stress this holiday season. The focus should be on family, friends, and loved ones. We can buy a new   watch, but we can`t buy time. We can buy a whole house, but we can`t buy a home.  This holiday season isn`t about the gifts we receive or the money we spend. It`s about the moments we make. Now, pop quiz, hot shot, ten-second trivia, which of these names has not been used for a NASA mission. Euclid Galileo, Kepler or Ptolemy? Ptolemy was an Egyptian astronomer, mathematician and geographer born around 100 A.D., but his name has not been used for any NASA missions.  "Lucy, I`m home," a famous line from the 1950 sitcom "I Love Lucy". Lucy is also the name of another NASA mission, but this Lucy is far from home. The   mission launched in October of 2021, but yesterday, Lucy reached its first target, an ancient asteroid called Dinkinesh. From a distance of about 265   miles, Lucy gathered images and data about the asteroid, which has only ever appeared as a smudge in telescopes.  Lucy will be NASA`s first mission to fly past ancient asteroids around Jupiter left over from the early days of our solar system. It`s expected to   take 12 years total and cost a lot of money. The launch alone cost about $148 million. Lucy isn`t expected to reach its next target until April of   2025. Here`s CNN`s Kristin Fisher with more details about this historic mission. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANNOUNCER: Three, two, one, lift off Atlas V takes flight. KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE & DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The NASA spacecraft is on a 12-year mission covering 6.4 billion kilometers to fly   past eight ancient asteroids.  Lucy is the first mission to investigate the Trojan asteroid swarms, which are asteroid clusters along Jupiter`s orbital path. Armed with cameras, a   thermometer and an infrared imaging spectrometer, Lucy will collect the first high resolution images of these asteroids.  The spacecraft gets her name from the Lucy fossil, an ancient human ancestor whose remains transform the study of hominid evolution. NASA hopes   its Lucy transforms the understanding of the evolution of the solar system. After making a few fly-bys of Earth for a gravity slingshot boost, Lucy`s   expected to reach her first objective in the asteroid belt between Earth and Jupiter. She`ll then travel to the Trojan asteroids all named after the   heroes of Homer`s "Iliad". KEITH NO, PLANETARY ASTRONOMER, NASA GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER: The power of what Lucy is able to do by having so many targets. We can construct all   these comparisons between all the different varieties and the diversity that we see in the Trojans, the unexpected diversity -- the different   colors, the different collision histories. It`s really a repository of fossils, as we like to say, of things that happened at the earliest stages   of solar system evolution. FISHER: Is powered by two giant solar arrays. That`ll expand outward like Chinese folding fans. They`ll carry Lucy farther away from the sun than any   other solar powered spacecraft.  Lucy will never return to Earth, but she won`t be the last to visit the asteroids. NASA plans to send more. China and Russia are teaming up on an   asteroid mission in 2024, and the UAE in 2028. Kristin Fisher, CNN. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Let`s return now from the stars up there to talk about the stars right here on this Earth, walking among us, the 10 finalists for this year,   CNN Heroes, which highlights everyday people doing extraordinary things. They`ve been announced.  You may remember some of them that we`ve met right here on this show. You can vote for your favorite hero online and we`ll announce the winner next   month.  Here`s Anderson Cooper with 10 finalists for CNN Hero of the Year. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANDERSON COOPER, CNN HOST: I`m Anderson Cooper all year long, we`ve been introducing you to inspiring people who are making the world a better   place. And at a time when we all could use more kindness, compassion, courage, we`re thrilled to announce the top 10 CNN heroes of 2023. From Washington, D.C., Yasmine Arrington grew up with a father who was in and out of prison. Today, her scholarship and mentorship program is helping   children of incarcerated parents succeed. In Ghana, Osei Boateng`s mobile medical clinic is delivering essential healthcare to remote communities where hospitals are often hours away. From Fayetteville, North Carolina, Stacey Buckner, and her converted off road vehicle provides showers, laundry services and meals to local homeless   vets. In the Florida Keys, Mike Goldberg recruits an army of recreational divers to help heal our oceans by transplanting, coral and restoring dying reefs. In Northern Montana, Tescha Hawley is providing a healthcare lifeline to her remote native American community. She offers free patient   transportation and fresh food to people on her reservation. From New York City, former school teacher Alvin Arby`s innovative reading program is strengthening the literacy of African American boys in   neighborhood barbershops across the country. From Burlington, Vermont, after his brother Kevin suffered a traumatic brain injury, Adam Pearce witnessed the healing power of yoga and   meditation. He now shares that power at transformative retreats for TBI patients and their caregivers. From Los Angeles, Estefania Rebellon uses buses transformed into mobile classrooms to provide education and stability to migrant children living in   shelters along the U.S.-Mexico border. In Detroit, the hit and run death of her 2-year-old son inspired Mama Shu to transform her neighborhood. By purchasing abandoned lots and providing   needed services, she`s built a flourishing eco village. And from San Diego, California, veterinarian, Dr. Kwane Stewart, brings free medical care to the pets of people who are experiencing homelessness   across the country. Congratulations the top 10 CNN Heroes of 2023. Now, it`s time for you to help decide who will be this year`s CNN Hero of the Year, and receive   $100,000 to continue their life changing work. Go to CNNHeroes.com right now to vote. And be sure to watch "CNN Heroes: An All Star Tribute", as we   announce the winner and celebrate all of this year`s honorees live Sunday, December 10th. (END VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) WIRE: If I could, I`d give all 10 of those heroes, a perfect 10 out of 10, but for today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10 -- let`s head to Keota High   School in Oklahoma, where a Tiger`s cheerleader named Paisley got a great surprise. Her dad, Master Sergeant Dennis Clark, had been serving overseas   for months, but little did Paisley know the mascot was a copycat dad in disguise. The reveal was perfect.  Paisley jumped into his paws. Crowd goes wild and Paisley cried, tears of joy. I`ve got a surprise for all of you. Looks like we`re right around   800,000 subscribers on our CNN 10 YouTube Channel. Thank you from the bottom of our hearts.  My executive producer said when that happens, we can start doing two shout- outs on every YouTube version of the show. Let`s go. Today, we`re showing love too Nemo Vista Middle School, Center Ridge, Arkansas, go Red Hawks!  Let`s make this a great day. And tomorrow, we`re going to finish this week strong. I`m Coy and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-11-03
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up sunshine. It`s time to shine. Welcome to CNN 10. It`s Friday, rise up. I`m your host Coy Wire. Let`s get   dominating this day with the best 10 minutes in news. We`ve got everything covered this week, right, from workers strikes to Royal visits in Kenya to   AI. But we start today with news regarding the ongoing war between Israel and Hamas. Looking further into how the world is responding this time on   some college campuses in the U.S. where tensions are running high.  Some students have been holding rallies, vigils, and protests to voice their feelings about this war. Some are pro-Israeli, the nation where at   least 1400 people were killed when Hamas attacked on October 7th, others are pro-Palestinian in the ongoing counter attacks by Israel, nearly 10,000   Palestinians have been killed in Gaza, the area where Hamas is based. Many students, regardless of their stance are attempting to condemn violence   overall, while largely peaceful, some student groups have erupted into fighting at colleges, including North Carolina Chapel Hill, Indiana   University, and Tulane University. Because of competing protests at Columbia University administrators, temporary closed campus on Thursday. Universities have been the centerpiece   of demonstrations throughout the years. Notably as students fought for civil rights in 1960s and protested U.S. involvement in the Vietnam war in   the 1970s. The first amendment gives students and everyone the right to express themselves stating that no laws can restrict "freedom of speech" or   of the press or the right of the people peaceably to assemble." Throughout the years, though, the Supreme Court has stated that that protection has limits and does not include inciting violence. On Tuesday at   Cornell University, a student was arrested for allegedly threatening to harm Jewish students in an online post. And the student has been charged in   federal court.  Well, Cornell closed on Friday telling CNN this was meant to ease the stress that`s been felt in the past weeks. Some Jewish students have told   CNN that they`re seeing an increase in anti-Jewish action and hatred, which is referred to as antisemitic. Antisemitism has long been a problem on   college campuses. And in a survey done in March over half of Jewish students responded saying they`d witnessed or experienced an antisemitic   incident.  At the same time, however, advocacy groups like the Council on American Islamic Relations and the Anti-Defamation league say Muslim people   throughout the country have also been the target of increasing harassment and attacks. The type of which are referred to as Islamophobic. President   Biden, who has voiced his administration`s support of Israel has now stated that his administration will also work on a first ever strategy to combat   anti-Muslim sentiment.  College administrators are tasked with attempting to ease tensions on campuses while also expressing support for their student bodies, and their   rights. Many colleges have released statements about the war in the middle east, but some of those responses have incited further protest. Some   universities are choosing to refrain from weighing in at all that has come with some criticism as well. We`ll continue to keep you updated on this   issue right here on CNN 10.  It`s about that time for Daylight Saving Time. This first Sunday in November, we will fall back or turn our clocks back an hour, or our   smartphones will do it for us. So do we gain an hour of sleep or lose an hour? Well, if you usually get up at 6:00 a.m., you`re now going to be   getting up at what would`ve been 7:00 a.m. So yes, we will gain an hour of sleep, hallelujah. On the first Sunday in March. We spring forward or set   our clocks forward an hour.  Daylight Saving Time has been used for more than a century. It was enacted to help us make more use of the day`s light. But a Monmouth University poll   found most Americans wants to stop recognizing it altogether. Some doctors even say the clock change isn`t healthy and can cause headaches in some of   us by affecting the hypothalamus in the brain. The part that manages our circadian rhythm, the circadian rhythm helps all living things adapt and   respond to light and dark within a 24-hour span.  Ten second trivia.  If you`re visiting a loch in Scotland, what are you visiting? A castle, a bridge, a lake or a school?  Ding, ding, ding, ding answer is, a loch. That`s a lake or large body of water surrounded by land. For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, we`re headed to Scotland to check up on a tale of a monster named Nessie in a Loch named Ness. Here CNN`s Max   Burnell with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MAX BURNELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Scotland`s Loch Ness has long been shrouded in mystery with reports of monsters lurking in its inky depth   stating back to ancient times, it came to the world`s attention in the 1930s with a string of reported sightings and an iconic photo. And while it   has turned out to be one of many hoaxes, monster hunters and curious, tourists alike have continued to flock here ever since. Now after more than 90 years of fascination, they can visit a new 1.9 million center dedicated to all things Loch Ness monster. While those   wanting to take a closer look can take a trip on the deep scan research vessel. Its skipper Alistair Matheson has spent the last 10 years giving   visitors and researchers their best chance of spotting Nessie. ALISTAIR MATHESON, DEEPSCAN CAPTAIN LOCH NESS PROJECT:  We have been working in recent years out here. We`ve done a few big projects. One of   those projects involved mapping the bottom of Lock Ness. Now, we were using some very clever equipment. And using that equipment I can confirm to you   all we did. In fact, find the Lock Ness monster.  This is the very monster we found here. Well, not quite, not quite, I`m afraid because, because it turned out it was this. So it was actually built   for a movie. But back in the real world, we`re going to sail out into the middle of the loch. You will get to see the size of Loch Ness. It`s fairly   big, of course. Loch Ness is 23 miles long, but on average it`s only a mile wide and it`s deep as well.  So right now we are 226 meters deep and 227 is maximum depth, big red dot. That`s going to be our monster. In 10 years that I`ve been doing this three   times on the echo center in the big red dot. That would be my closest encounter with a monster. BURNELL:  Between 2018 and 2019, the Deepscan helped conduct a DNA survey of the loch while the large amounts of eel DNA found pointed to a more   terrestrial explanation. It didn`t deter monster hunter, Alan McKenna from organizing the biggest creature hunt for 50 years back in August. But the   lack of concrete evidence over the years has done little to dampen the mystery for many. MATHESON:  Definitive proof is always what we want. Isn`t it -- we always want to know yes or no and everything about life, not just monsters, but   for me, there`s a mystery here. And that`s what I firmly believe in. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, it has been so nice learning with you this week and laughing and having some fun. Halloween was epic. My family were witches,   black cats, and I was the magic broomstick carrying the tiny witches on the candy hunts.  And how about these costumes? Paul from Mr. Neypossi`s (ph) class in Boston`s Spa, New York, looking mighty fierce, I have to say. And dad, Mr.   Rispo (ph) rocking the room and rains look. Or how about the firewalls? Ms. Seamers (ph) and Mrs. Statomyer (ph) at Tumwater in Washington. Now that`s   a 10 out of 10. Thanks to all of you. We have officially reached 800,000 subscribers on our YouTube channel. So now I can do two shoutouts at the   end of every YouTube version of the show.  Today`s shoutout go to Bellmont High School Decatur, Indiana. We see you. And Chaney Middle School in West Fargo, North Dakota, rise up. Have a great   weekend everyone. And remember you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END 

Date: 2023-11-06
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, sunshine. Hope you had a wonderful weekend. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. Let`s get our minds right this   motivation Monday. New week`s bring new opportunities, but we only have seven Mondays left this year. Can you believe? So, let`s make the most of   them. We`ve got the best 10 minutes in news for you. And we start with the latest news regarding space. We`re getting a rare look inside of one of   China`s space centers. For two decades, just the United States and the Soviet Union we`re in competition to see who could be the first to conquer   space. The whole world watch as the Apollo 11 landed and human beings walked on the moon for the first time.  But now more than 50 years later, a new competition for space exploration has emerged with more countries involved as well, including China and   India. China is now in a race with the U.S. to set a permanent outpost and research station on the moon. The Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center in the   Gobi Desert is one of the places that China is pursuing its future in space. And CNN`s Marc Stewart takes us there to get an inside, look and   check out the launch of a Chinese spacecraft. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MARC STEWART, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): China has big ambitions in space. It operates a space station, has sent rovers to the far   side of the Moon and Mars, and is now aiming to put humans on the lunar surface. Those voyages begin in the middle of the Gobi Desert in Northern   China. After two flights in about four hours on the bus, we arrive at the Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center. Access to the Space Center here is rare, and it is sprawling. There are so many buildings, so many streets. It`s very reminiscent of a small city or   town. We`re here to witness the launch of the Shenzhou-17 spacecraft. From behind glass, we met its crew of three that are headed to China`s space   station. Since 2011, the U.S. government has effectively banned NASA from working with China in space, contributing to a 21st Century space race with   two super powers, both aiming for the moon and beyond. Through its Artemis program, NASA is aiming to set up a permanent lunar outpost later this   decade and China is aiming to set up a lunar research station on a similar timeframe.  (On camera): Are there any benefits from this competitive environment? ZHANG WANXIN, SENIOR OFFICIAL, CHINA ASTRONAUT RESEARCH AND TRAINING CENTER (through translator):  I think a competitive environment can help us all   improve. Exploring space is the common goal for all mankind. So I think if we can work together, it will improve space exploration. STEWART:  Chinese officials, stress they`ve never sought dominance in space. Yet once the international space station is retired by 2031 China`s   Tiangong space station may take on new prominence.  (On camera):  If China, for a period of time is the only nation with a space station, how does China benefit? LEROY CHIAO, FORMER ISS COMMANDER, NASA:  If they`re the only game in town, that`s the only way that these countries can participate in human space   flight. STEWART:  Russia, as well as some commercial space companies have space station proposals in the works, but success for any of them is far from   guaranteed.  China`s space program is a huge source of national pride. We talked to China`s first astronaut. YANG LIWEI, CHINA`S FIRST ASTRONAUT IN SPACE (through translator):  Looking at this launch as a veteran, the first thing I see is how far China`s man`s   space flight has come. Over the past 20 years, it has developed rapidly and made great achievements in them. I see the strength of our reserve force.   And the hope for the future development of China`s aerospace industry. (On camera):  We are just minutes away from liftoff. You can see the rocket back there. This is part of this bigger mission to maintain and expand   China`s space station.  (Voice-over):  With each mission, China can learn more and continue to challenge what has been a long stretch of U.S. dominant in space. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  This winter, parts of the United States will be seeing lots of snow stack of. Thanks to a strong El Nino, the weather pattern in tropical   Pacific that typically brings weather and cooler weather scientists at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or NOAA have created maps   to help people prepare. The maps show snowfall during all El Nino winters and during moderate to strong El Nino winters. And this one, that shows the number of years with   below average snowfall during the 13 moderate to strong El Nino winters.  These maps though give a sense of what we might expect. They`re more like historical guides, not crystal ball forecast for the upcoming snow season.   This El Nino though is predicted to be the most powerful. The contiguous United States has seen in eight years when it caused the warmest winter on   record, while every El Nino winter is unique, it usually brings wetter and cooler conditions to the Southern U.S., and dryer warmer weather up north.   And that`s exactly what`s on the horizon for this winter. Ten second trivia. Which of these college degrees is considered the highest level of academic degree? Master`s, Associate, Doctoral, or bachelor`s? Just with the doctor order, the doctoral degree is the most advanced diploma symbolizing a person has mastered a specific area of study. This   year, we`ve talked about the growing influence potential and emerging concerns of the impact of artificial intelligence across many industries.   But what about education? It`s a question many college campuses are dealing with AI chatbots, programs that generate text. They`ve raised new questions   for many educators who are focused on students, not only getting the right answer, but also understanding the course material.  A survey of college students earlier this year showed more than 51% believe using AI tools to complete assignments and exams is cheating. While   plagiarism and cheating are not a new phenomenon in academia, these new tools have created a more complex environment and administrations are   struggling to set new ground rules. Should these tools be banned or is there a way that they could be used responsibly?  The landscape is changing. There have been numerous cases of students being caught and punished for using AI. And there are also cases of students   saying they`ve been falsely accused of using the technology inappropriately. The response by professors has been varied with some   ignoring the new technology, some banning it and others are changing the way they format their exams. Some are switching back to written papers   after many years of digital only. But how easy is it to spot AI content? (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DARREN HICK, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF PHILOSOPHY, FURMAN UNIVERSITY:  Why are you doing this? STEVEN KELTS, LECTURER, PRINCETON UNIVERSITY:  We`re still going to know. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  These college professors say, students are increasingly cutting and pasting AI generated text in their essays, and   that is cheating. These professors say they`re not falling for it. And there are often three extremely obvious giveaways. Number one, the essay is   suspiciously perfect. HICK:  A ChatGPT generated essay looks like it was written by a very competent 12th grader. CHRISTOPHER BARTEL, PROFESSOR OF PHILOSOPHY, APPALACHIAN STATE UNIVERSITY:  AI generated text has no mistakes. It`s like robotically, bland text.   Nobody would actually speak that way. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Another giveaway, the essay has no human voice. KELTS:  The built-in voice of a model like ChatGPT is the voice of a 50- year-old compliance lawyer. SARAH ELAINE EATON, ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF EDUCATION, UNIVERSITY OF CALGARY:  It seems to lack vibrancy. There`s not a lot of authentic student   voice or experience in there. BARTEL:  An AI generated text feels like an essay that`s written by an intelligent person who has never had a class with me. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  And third, AI essays often cite false research.  HICK:  Perhaps the biggest thing that a ChatGPT generated essay can do is shake the instructor`s own confidence in what they know about the source   material. BARTEL:  It will just make things up. It will attribute ideas to people that could never have had those ideas.  ANTONY AUMANN, PROFESSOR OF PHILOSOPHY, NORTHERN MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY:  It`ll combine perfect grammar with something that`s like, obviously false. PENELOPE ADAMS MOON, CENTER FOR TEACHING AND LEARNING DIRECTOR, UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON:  It can`t distinguish between fact and fiction. It can`t   distinguish between information and disinformation. HICK:  It will look like it`s quoting and it will look like it`s citing. But if those sources don`t look familiar to you, there`s a good chance.   This is written by AI. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, you ever wonder, what`s behind your feline friends, furry faces? Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is all about expressions of   cattitude. Scientists observe 53 cats interacting at a cat cafe in California. Over a 10-month span, the study found that domesticated cats   have 276 different facial expressions. They determine that about 45% of those expressions were friendly, good kitty, while 37% were aggressive.  The study demonstrates the cat communication is more complex than previously assumed. And apparently cats are a meowtain of emotions and   their feelings are kitten all over their faces.  Look how cats because we have some bulldogs to shoutout. Dunbar High School in Lexington, Kentucky, rise up. And we are also sending love to Tecumseh,   Oklahoma, Tecumseh Middle School, shine bright this motivation Monday. You never know when, you never know how or for whom, but you are going to be   the light that someone needs one day. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-11-07
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And it`s your CNN 10. We`re putting your vocabulary word in tomorrow`s   show for #YourWordWednesday. Follow me @coywire on Instagram, Snapchat, and TikTok. Put your word, definition, your school and teacher`s name in the   comment section of my most recent post. And we`re going to choose one winner to work into tomorrow`s show. Today, though, it is Tuesday, November 7th, and it`s not just any Tuesday. It`s the Tuesday after the first Monday of November, A-K-A election Day   here in the United States. Federal elections have historically happened on this day to accommodate farmers across the country. Did you know? It`s   after the harvest, but before the weather gets too cold.  Why Tuesday? Well, people didn`t want to travel to the polls on Sundays because of church. And Wednesday was a day that a lot of farmers would take   their goods to the market to sell. That left Tuesday as one of the most convenient days to hold U.S. elections, something we still observe to this   day. Those who are heading to the polls today, they won`t be voting for president, that`s next year. But some cities will be voting for mayor, in   some states will be voting for governor, and other legislative and constitutional issues are on the table. The outcome of those elections   could give a better idea of how Americans are feeling about certain issues ahead of the U.S. presidential election next year. And you can follow along   right here with us on CNN. Moving on now to another choice, multiple choice. Pop quiz, hot shot.  Ten second trivia. One of the world`s most iconic structures. The Taj Mahal is located in which city in India? New Delhi, Mumbai, Agra, or Kolkata? Beginning construction in 1632, the Taj Mahal is located in this city of Agra.  The Taj Mahal is considered one of the most beautiful sites in the world. In fact, it was named one of the new seven wonders of the world. But it   could become more difficult to see and to glimpse this glorious site because of pollution. It`s an unhealthy, even hazardous problem for parts   of India. Delhi, Kolkata, and Mumbai were among the 10 most polluted cities on earth this week, according to a Swiss company called IQAir. CNN`s   Michael Holmes explains what it all means. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN ANCHOR:  India`s iconic monument, almost lost in the smog in the city of Agra. It`s not the psych tourists nor the businesses,   which depend on them, want to see. NIRANJAN SINGH, PHOTOGRAPHER (through translator):  We are facing difficulty in taking pictures of Taj Mahal due to pollution. The Taj Mahal   is not clearly visible. Tourists are also facing issues. HOLMES: Every year, when the temperatures drop and farmers burn their fields, the air turns toxic in many Indian cities. Delhi is notoriously   ranked among the world`s most polluted cities and the current air quality there has once again, reached hazardous conditions, forcing primary schools   to temporarily close and many people to work from home or just stay indoors altogether.  The problem is so serious. A recent air quality life index report says poor air quality could shorten an average Indian`s life expectancy by more than   five years. If World Health Organization guidelines on curbing pollution aren`t met. And it`s even affecting one of the country`s favorite pastimes.   India is currently hosting the quicker World Cup with Bangladesh set to play Sri Lanka in a match in Delhi. But the air quality is so poor. Some   players are wearing masks and both teams have canceled training sessions. The coach of Bangladesh`s team says the conditions have not been ideal. CHANDIKA HATHURUSINGHE, BANGLADESH CRICKET TEAM COARCH:  Our doctors keep a close eye on players. Even for practice, we`re very conscious. We train   what we have to train, and they go back into the dressing room. HOLMES: Unfortunately, for cricket fans and Delhi residents alike, officials say pollution levels are expected to be high for the next two to   three weeks. Michael Holmes, CNN. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Hey, Siri? SIRI:  Uh-huh? WIRE:  Call earth. SIRI:  I don`t see Earth in your contacts, to who? WIRE:  I`m trying to make a call to earth. SIRI:  I don`t see earth in your contacts, to who? WIRE:  Never mind. It`s time for CNN`s call to earth. And we`re going to go diving into our next story with a team of researchers exploring underwater   sites so deep. It takes some three hours to resurface. They`re hoping their studies can help us better understand and preserve our oceans. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) GHISLAIN BARDOUT, CO-FOUNDER & CO-DIRECTOR, UNDER THE POLE:  When you are a diver, you are always curious to go to see a little bit further. I think   every single diver in the world, when you are about to go up, you always have an eye to the depth, to the bottom. Little by little, you want to go   deeper because you wonder what -- what are you going to find? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Ghislain Bardout with his wife Emmanuelle in 2007, he has conducted thousands of dives often to 150 or even 200 meters deep. His   crew has explored everywhere from the Arctic to the Canary Islands, French Polynesia to the Caribbean. BARDOUT:  We are talking about new ecosystem that`s covered the entire planet. All the shore, everywhere. It`s just below 30 meters, 40 meters.   And there are, for sure, many species, many different ecosystem that all have a huge importance. So acquiring a better understanding of their, their   ecology is essential for the conservation of those depths. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  With scientists aboard their boat under the poll aims to document these ecosystems for the first time and help preserve their   future. BARDOUT:  The length of the missions are from months to years. It`s very demanding, very tiring. It`s a very big engagements, not only human   engagement. It`s a huge logistical organizational engagement. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Ghislain`s team are preparing for a six-month expedition, in the Mediterranean next year. That will take them from Greece   to Italy, to France. EMMANUELLE PERIE-BARDOUT, CO-FOUNDER & CO-DIRECTOR, UNDER THE POLE:  If we spend 20 minutes at 130 meters, we will -- we will take three hours to come   back to the surface. And this is not negotiable. You have to take this three hours, whatever happens. You need to be technically ready and   psychologically ready also to make this type of dive. And, yeah, it takes years to be ready for that. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  In 2022, under the Pole help gain protection for black coral force in the Canary Islands. And they believe there is a similar   ecosystem to be explored on their Mediterranean voyage next year.  BARDOUT:  In Greece, they already explored the depths with robots ROVs. So they know some fields of black corals, but are not able to study because of   the depths, because they do not have the diverse to do so. And I like those missions where there`s huge collaborations, you know, with different people   that can do together something they cannot do alone or just with their own team. PERIE-BARDOUT:  Our mission is really to make the invisible visible, even if it`s deep, even if it`s very far away like in the polar regions, we need   this place and we need to protect it. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 looks like a really gourd time. What should you do with all those leftover pumpkins? Whatever you do, throw   them away before they get all moldy or gooey, or you could do with this middle school teacher in North Dakota did blowing up the pumpkins in the   name of science. Do not try this at home.  He`s using the pumpkins to demonstrate a chemical reaction between water and a compound called calcium carbide. And this chemical reaction got a   great reaction from the students.  Did you know, Jack O`Lanterns originated in Irelands to ward off evil spirits. But instead of using pumpkins, the Irish carved creepy phases into   turnips. It`s time to turn up right here on CNN 10.  Our special shout out today goes to Jacksonville High School in Jacksonville, North Carolina, go Cardinals. Don`t forget to submit your   word for tomorrow`s show @coywire on the socials. We can wait to learn from you. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-11-08
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, sunshine. We`re halfway through the week, but we`re going to keep on grinding and shining because that`s just what we   do. It`s Wednesday, November 8th and the holiday travel season is almost upon us. So in the spirit of that pack your best, because we`re going to be   going around the world for several stories today. But first let`s talk specifically about what`s happening at some of the airports heading into   the holidays.  If you`re traveling through international airports in Boston, San Francisco, Washington, or New York, you may see extra security for the   tiniest of passengers, bacteria and viruses. The U.S. centers for disease control and prevention or CDC is expanding a program that detects COVID-19   to include more than 30 pathogens, it`s called the Traveler-Based Genomic Surveillance Program. It was first introduced in 2021 during the pandemic,   even though the U.S. has relaxed a lot of its pandemic-related restrictions, thousands of people are still being hospitalized with the   disease.  As part of the surveillance program, international travelers can volunteer for nasal swabs. The CDC has also been testing airplane wastewater since   2022. Did you know? Today they`ve tested more than 370,000 people arriving from more than 135 countries at seven participating U.S. airports.  Now, four of those airports will also test for bacteria and viruses behind infectious diseases like the flu and RSV. This surveillance program is   meant to help health officials detect new variants of COVID-19 and other diseases before they spread across the country.  Now, pop quiz, hot shot. Ten second trivia. In Egyptian mythology, what creature has the head of a human in the body of a lion?  Griffin, Sphinx, Phoenix or Centaur? If you think sphinx, you think correctly, the sphinx is an important figure in Egyptian and Greek art. A giant carving of the mythical creature, the   sphinx lies in the sand near Giza famous pyramids in Egypt. The great sphinx is thousands of years old. It stands 66 feet tall and it`s thought   to be carved from a single piece of limestone. But how would such a huge sculpture end up in the desert? Well, one popular theory was put forward by   geologists, Farouk El-Baz. He believed that the desert wind, shaped a natural land form to resemble a reclining sphinx. And the ancient Egyptians   simply added surface details.  El-Baz came up with his theory about 40 years ago and a new study suggests he may have been onto something. A team of scientists at NYU`s applied   mathematics lab replicated windy conditions, the Great Sphinx likely faced 4,500 years ago instead of wind, they used a flat stream of water. And when   it was washed over clay models of natural land forms, low and behold, a lion shape took form.  All right, from the sands of Giza, we`ll dive now into another big discovery spotted in the waters of Hawaii. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  This is a rarely seen, whale shark, according to researchers from the Hawaii Institute of Marine Biology Shark Research Lab,   who captured the footage near the Hawaiian islands. The whale shark is the world`s largest species of fish and is known to live in Hawaiian water, as   the research say.  MARK ROYER, UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII, SHARK MANAGER:  They`re here more often than we think, but however, they are probably hard to come across. I didn`t   see this animal until they hopped in the water. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Royer observed the 30-foot shark beating on Hawaiian entities known as nehu and approaching their boat that was starting idle in   the water. Experts say that in these situations it`s important to be mindful, let the shark approach, but don`t aggressively get close and   disturb it. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  That was whaly cool. One other fun fact about whale sharks, the largest fish on the planet, even though they`re about as big as a school   bus with enormous mouths, they couldn`t eat you even if they wanted to. Their throat is only the size of a quarter, designed only to swallow small,   tiny little fish.  All right, our next story takes us to the Hawaiian Highlands where we`re getting a glimpse of an extremely rare bird. The kind of which only five   are thought to be remaining in the wild. Researchers though, they`re working to help them make a comeback. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  High up on a plateau in the middle of the Hawaiian island of Kauai, a team of researchers carefully transport, some extremely   precious cargo. (OFF MIC) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  They`ve spent three days in this remote and rain- soaked expanse of jungle, looking for something very specific and very small. The egg of one of the world`s most critically endangered species, a   Hawaiian honeycreeper known as the `Akikiki, found nowhere else on earth but here. According to the Hawaiian Department of Land and Natural   Resources, there are only five of the species left in the wild. HANNAH BAILEY, WILDLIFE CARE MANAGER, KEAUHOU BIRD CONSERVATION CENTER, SAN DIEGO ZOO WILDLIFE ALLIANCE:  The current state of `Akikiki is pretty bad   right now. We do have about 50 `Akikiki in human care at our two centers in Hawaii. And we do know that this past breeding season, there were no   surviving chicks in the wild. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Hannah Bailey manages the Keauhou Bird Conservation Center on the island of Hawaii. The center serves as a Noah`s Ark of sorts   for the `Akikiki. BAILEY:  Our mission is to provide safe haven populations of the species that are in peril so that when the environment is right for them to survive   long-term, we`ll be able to re-release them. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Hannah says the current state of all of Hawaii`s forest birds is dire due in part to the usual culprits like habitat loss,   but a newer and more deadly manners has emerged. BAILEY:  The biggest threat right now to Hawaii`s endangered birds is mosquitoes. Because they carry avian malaria, which the birds have no   resistance to. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  According to the American Bird Conservancy, climate change has enabled non-native mosquitoes to find their way to Kauai`s   highest elevations. The `Akikiki`s last refuge in the wild. BAILEY:  This is a portable brooder box that we can also use to incubate eggs. And it helps us transfer eggs from one location to another that have   been incubated safely so that they will continue to grow and develop. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We need to have landscape level solutions to the mosquito problems. In the meantime, keeping the birds in centers like this   one where enclosures are designed to mimic their natural habitat, but to protect it from mosquitoes, and where human interaction is strictly limited   to discourage imprinting, a process where animals lose their natural behavior. These may very well be an entire species last chance at survival. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, from mythical beasts in ancient Egypt to rare creatures in modern day, Hawaii, we`ve been all around the world today. Time for our   grand finale, today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 takes us to the sleepy mountain town of Hope in British Columbia, Canada. That wasn`t quite such a   sleepy town after a collision involving a trailer full of fireworks it led to a light show that was anything but infinitesimal. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT:  You expect to see fireworks on a national holiday, but not just driving down a dark highway. RYAN KUHN, RECORDED FIREWORKS:  Probably the most spectacular firework show we`ll ever see in our lives. It was quite a -- a site to behold. MOOS:  Ryan Kuhn was driving with his wife on the trans-Canada highway, near town called Hope in British Columbia, police say a tractor trailer   rear ended a pickup parked at the side of the road with a trailer full of fireworks in tow. Traffic was stopped.  (On camera): And how long did the show last? KUHN: It was about an hour. The first half an hour was nonstop fireworks. So imagine the crescendo of the best firework show you`ve ever seen. It was   just nonstop for 30 minutes. MOOS:  Some dared to get out of their cars, still wary of flying debris. The driver of the pickup hit by the truck had minor injuries, wrote one   commenter, "Dude! That`s better than Disney`s fireworks. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Now, that`s the way to end this show with a bang. Congrats to Mr. Rhodes and the Mustangs in Sumner, Nebraska, you submitted the winner for   #YourWordWednesday, infinitesimal, an adjective, meaning extremely small. Well done.  Our special shout out today goes to Verde Middle School in Florida, Boca Raton, rise up. Thanks for the love. And our second shout out of the day   goes to Campbell County High School in Gillette, Wyoming, let`s go. What do you say? We make this an awesome day, y`all. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN   10. END 

Date: 2023-11-09
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up superstars. It`s about that time. It`s Thursday, November 9. And it`s time to shine. Hey, that kind of rhyme. And   I wasn`t even trying, I`m lying. I was. Happy Friday eve. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we start today with some pandemonium. These giant   pandas at the national zoo in Washington are very important pandas. The pandas are native to China with an estimated 1800 left in the wild.  That`s according to the World Wildlife Fund. They`re also China`s national animal. Giant pandas live off of bamboo and they can eat more than 80   pounds of the plant every day. And they`re not called giant pandas for nothing. A male can weigh up to 300 pounds. That`s an offensive lineman in   the NFL. So what makes these three bears so special? Well, China loaned them to the National Zoo as part of a program that dates back more than 50   years.  But next week, this family, mom, and dad and their cub will return home. And it`s unclear whether China will send new bears. CNN Correspondent,   David Culver explains why this is significant in the big picture of what`s come to be known as Panda diplomacy. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DAVID CULVER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: For weeks, visitors at the National Zoo in Washington have stopped by to say goodbye. The zoo`s three giant pandas now   headed to China. Zoo staff, call this a hiatus in their five decade wildly popular panda program. Chinese officials have yet to say, if it will   continue. You might wonder, why this even matters?  There are, of course, far more pressing issues between the U.S. and China. But as we look deeper, tracking where Pandas are leaving and where they`re   going, you get a better sense of the new world order. China`s hoping to craft these cuddly creatures used for China`s major political and   diplomatic needs, especially in places where it hopes to gain. But China says its focus is on conservation and research. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: President Nixon`s visit to our country --  CULVER: Beijing`s Panda diplomacy with Washington as it`s called kicked off in 1972. Following President Nixon`s historic visit to China, Chairman Mao   Zedong, the Founder of Communist, China gifted two Panas to the U.S. in a sign of warming, bilateral ties after decades of diplomatic deep freeze.   First Lady, Pat Nixon welcome the Pandas to Washington. PAT NIXON, FORMER FIRST LADY: They will be enjoyed by the millions of people who come from across the country. CULVER: Seen their popularity rise amongst Americans, China sent more pandas to other zoos across the U.S., eventually loaning instead of gifting   them. The 2011 agreement between China and the National Zoo stipulates ownership of the Pandas and any offspring belonged to China. The contract   also requires payment to China of $500,000 each year for the conservation of giant Pandas in China.  At its height, there were 15 pandas in the United States, but in the last decade, the numbers have dropped coinciding with worsening U.S.-China   relations with the three Pandas now departing the national zoo that only leaves zoo Atlanta with Pandas in the U.S.  For now, the contracts for Atlanta`s final four expire next year, no word on any extension. (On camera): And that could mean that by the end of 2024, the only Panda in zoos in all of the Americas would be Xin Xin right here in Mexico City. (Voice-over): China`s also loaned out new giant pandas to other countries, including E.U. nations, like Denmark, Finland, and Germany, and in the   Middle East, Qatar getting their first Panda last year. Regions where China is looking to bolster its relations and increase its influence. Staff at   the National Zoo, hopeful China might one day send over more giant Pandas. They`re even planning renovations for the soon to be vacant Panda exhibit. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia. Who gave the aurora borealis its name? Galileo, Cassini, Copernicus, or Kepler? Galileo, Galileo was the astronomer who came up with the name in the early 1600s. Aurora borealis also known as Northern lights. It`s an atmospheric   phenomenon that creates enchanting dancing waves of light associated with countries surrounding the Arctic like Canada, Russia, and Norway.  But last weekend, you didn`t have to head for the North Pole to catch these mesmerizing shining skies. The borealis were spotted in parts of the U.K.,   Ukraine, and Slovakia. And according to experts, southern sightings could become more common with increased solar activity. So how does the sun   summon this nighttime spectacle? We`ve got your answer right here. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JENNIFER GRAY, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Described as one of Earth`s greatest light shows, and aurora is one of the most fascinating and beautiful   naturally occurring phenomena. You might know it as in Northern lights, but it`s technically called the Aurora Borealis in the Northern hemisphere, in   the Aurora Australia`s or Southern lights in the Southern hemisphere. This phenomenon occurs above the magnetic poles in the Northern and Southern   hemisphere. They form when gas is particles in the Earth`s atmosphere, collide with charged particles released from the sun, electrons and protons   from the sun are blown toward the earth by the solar wind.  As these are carried towards earth, most of them are deflected by Earth`s magnetic field. However, the magnetic field is weaker at the poles,   allowing some of the particles to funnel into the Earth`s atmosphere. The vibrant colors produced are determined by the type of gases that are   colliding. The result is a brilliant display of the common green in yellow, less common blue and violet, even rare reds painting the night sky and   ribbons arcs or shooting rays. Oxygen produces green in red light while nitrogen gives off blue and purple. The best time of year to view the light   show is during the winter months, when the nights are longer. Under a cloud free sky away from light pollution. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is a wild crash landing that helped one buyer knock a couple bucks off a deal. CNN`s Jeanne Moos has all   the deer tales. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT: 13-year-old, Troy Wescott, was outside his maze landing, New Jersey home shooting hoops with his dog   Parker when he heard rustling in the leaves, the dogs spotted the deer first.  But just as spectacular as the leap was this coincidence, the 2007 Chevy Silverado pickup was for sale. And at the exact same moment, the   prospective buyer pulled up to cinch the deal, the deer slammed into the pickup.  (On camera): What did he say?  TROY WESCOTT, WITNESSED DEER LEAP: He was just shocked. He was like, oh wow. MOOS: Troy`s dad was likewise stunned, but the buyer wasted no time in asking. JILLIAN VAUGHN, TROY`S MOM: How about a little break on the price for the damage to the truck? MOOS: The dent left by the young box saved the buyer, 1000 bucks off the asking price. The sellers started cracking jokes. VAUGHN: We think that the deer was trained. I said, man, I know y`all brought that deer with you. MOOS: As the video went viral, commenters had two questions.  VAUGHN: People are asking, is the deer okay? MOOS: He seems to be OK, spotted on a neighbor`s trail camera. VAUGHN: People are asking if the truck is still for sale. MOOS: Nope, sold, but it took a flying deer to make a pickup less deer by a thousand bucks. Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Oh dear, that was staggering. It would`ve behooved them to keep that truck in the garage. Hey, you Santa, you see that fly in deer, pick them   up.  All right, we`ve got two shoutouts in the YouTube version of our show today, since we`ve officially topped 800,000 subscribers on our CNN 10   YouTube Channel. Let`s go. Today, we`re showing love to Alcorn Central Middle School in Glen, Mississippi, rise up. And how about those sages, the   mighty sages at Monticello High School in Monticello, Illinois, it`s your moment. So own it. Happy Friday eve, superstar. I`ll see you tomorrow. I`m   Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-11-10
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  It`s the next day of the week, and it`s the best day of the week, Friyay. It`s Friday, November 10. I`m Coy Wire. This is   CNN 10. And before we have some fun, we start today with our ongoing coverage of the conflict between Israel and Hamas. We`re giving you not   one, but two quick one-minute reports that dive into different aspects of this story.  First up, Hamas tunnels. Israel Defense forces are continuing their bombardment and invasion of Gaza, saying one of their intentions is to   destroy the infrastructure that allows Hamas, the militant fundamentalist Islamic Organization, to launch its attacks. That infrastructure is largely   made up of what Israel says are hundreds of kilometers of tunnels that Hamas has spent years building underneath the city streets in Gaza.  Israel calls it the Gaza Metro. In 2018, CNN got a rare glimpse inside these tunnels in the footage you`re seeing now. For more on this vast   underground network, we turn to our Oren Liebermann/ (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT:  The Israeli military controls the air and says they`ve encircled Gaza city on the ground. But underneath   the surface, Hamas still has the advantage. Israel is going after Hamas`s underground infrastructure. This soldier shows an electrical system he says   is used to circulate air underground.  The IDF says it has destroyed 130 tunnel shafts since the start of the war. That`s just a small fraction of what`s known as Gaza`s Metro. Israel says   there are hundreds of kilometers of tunnels below Gaza. In 2018, CNN was given an exclusive look at a Palestinian Islamic Jihad tunnel inside Gaza.   Its concrete walls creating a durable underground maze that favors the defender. Tunnels can pose problems for even advanced militaries. But Israel faces an even greater challenge. Hamas is believed to be holding many of the   approximately 240 hostages underground, possibly in different groups.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Now for our next quick minute, as Israel moves further into Gaza, residents are fleeing south. As they walk, they wave white flags, a symbol   that for centuries signals that the flag bearer is not fighting. The Hamas controlled Health Ministry said this week that more than 10,000 people have   been killed in Gaza, with that number largely made up of vulnerable populations, including more than 4000 children, 2600 women and 600 elderly.   These numbers cannot be independently verified, though, by CNN.  With more on the residents of Gaza, we turn now to our Salma Abdelaziz.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voiceover):  Taking only what they can carry, families are fleeing Gaza City. They wave white flags made of   anything they can find. And as the sounds of war echo around them, they signal yet again that they are innocents. The Israeli military has been calling for weeks on all those living in the northern part of the strip to southwards. Most recently opening what it   called safe corridors for limited windows of time. Pushing thousands here to Salah al-Din Street, where evacuees describe a harrowing journey. The only way to reach the route is by foot or by cart for those who can find room. There was heavy shelling on our neighborhood and we were forced to flee. We have to use these donkey carts because there`s no fuel, he says. They cut   everything off to force us out of our homes. The U.N. calls this exodus forcible displacement and accuses Israel of the collective punishment of   some 2 million people.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Let`s turn now to space, where Japanese scientists are thinking about our rising space waste problem. Researchers at Kyoto University in   Japan are building wooden satellites, hoping to soon send them into space. Why wood, not the usual metal? Well, when satellites are no longer in use,   they come back into Earth`s atmosphere, where they break up into metallic particles, that litters the layer of the Earth we call the stratosphere.   That`s the second atmospheric layer of Earth that rises anywhere from 6 to 12 miles above the Earth`s surface, depending on where you are on the   equator.  And we`re getting a lot of space debris. In 2021, we sent up nearly 1400 satellites into space, with scientists worried that this future satellite   trash, if you will, could damage the ozone. The Kyoto University researchers say wooden satellites can hold up to metal ones because there`s   no oxygen in space that can break down the wood. But when the satellite has run its course and it starts rapidly descending back towards Earth, poof,   they just turn into gas. They`ve tested three types of wood so far, with the Japanese bigleaf magnolia coming up as the winner so far, if all goes   well, we might just see a prototype in space next year.  Ten second trivia.  Which basketball star holds the all-time 3-point contest record for points scored in a single round?  Steph Curry, Sabrina Ionescu, Diana Taurasi, or Larry Bird, cuckoo. In July lie of this year, WNBA Star Sabrina Ionescu broke Steph Curry`s record by hitting 25 of 27 three pointers.  For today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10. We`re getting secrets of success from one of the hardest working, most focused people you could ever meet.   WNBA superstar Sabrina Ionescu plays for the New York Liberty, and she`s set to represent Team USA at the Olympics in 259 days. I caught up with her   at practice this week to ask some questions just for you.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  What`s up, lovely people? I`m here at practice for Team USA with Team USA and WNBA superstar Sabrina Ionescu, and we are going to learn some   tips and tools for success from the GOAT. All right, here we go. What type of challenges did you face growing up, and how did those adversities shape   you into the person you are today?  SABRINA IONESCU, NEW YORK LIBERTY, WNBA:  There`s just so many, but, you know, I would say one is not listening to people telling you what you   should and shouldn`t be. From a young age, especially being a girl in sports, everyone didn`t think I belonged and didn`t think that I should be   playing, but I really didn`t listen to the outside noise of what people thought, and I really just believed in the dreams that I had and worked   really hard at getting to where I`m at today, and I`m really thankful for that.  WIRE:  What would you say is the secret to success?  IONESCU:  Just being the best version of yourself, committing yourself to working really hard and not letting, you know, the outside noise creep in   and comparing yourself to other people, but just running your own race. WIRE:  You`re a superstar athlete, but in school, how important was education and focusing on studying hard and getting good grades?  IONESCU:  It was everything. Being educated is a big part of your role as a professional athlete, being able to talk and have the knowledge of   understanding what`s going on in the world and how you can make it a better place. And so school has always been super important to me. I was able to   get a master`s in college and graduate with that, and so that was always at the forefront of what I wanted to accomplish.  WIRE:  I love that. All right, we`re going to have a little bit of fun now. Do you have any hidden talent, like I can say the alphabet backwards really   fast. Z, Y, X, W, V, U, T, S, R, Q, P, O, N, M, L, K, J, I, H, G, F, E, D, C, B, A. IONESCU:  I`m ambidextrous.  WIRE:  Really?  IONESCU:  Yes. But that`s not as cool as that.  WIRE:  So like do you trade off, like, do you eat food sometimes with your left and right?  IONESCU:  Yes.  Yes, both. Yeah.  WIRE:  Just natural gift or did you work on that?  IONESCU:  I think naturally. But I`ve also worked on it.  WIRE:  Love it.  IONESCU:  Yes.  WIRE:  All right, you heard it here, keep shining, everyone. Remember, stay humble, stay hungry. I`m Coy Wire.  IONESCU:  I`m Sabrina Ionescu. WIRE:  And we are CNN --  IONESCU:  10.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  My goodness. From Japan to China, India, Egypt, the Middle East, to the moon and infinity and beyond, we`ve been everywhere this week. We`ve   learned a lot, laughed a little, and we showed a whole lot of love. Shout out to the Cougars of Sutton Middle School in Atlanta, Georgia. It was so   awesome visiting your school this week and meeting some of you, rise up.  We are also showing love today to the Bulldogs of Bullis School in Potomac, Maryland. From me and my team, keep shining, superstars. Remember, you are   more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you.  END     

Date: 2023-11-13
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up sunshine. Hope you had an awesome weekend and you`re getting closer to your goals. If it feels like you`re   not this motivation Monday, remember this tough times make us tougher. Flowers that can thrive, growing up through cracks in a drive are better   equipped to survive than those growing on country sides. We gain strength through our struggles.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we start today with the latest scoop from Hollywood. The actor strike is over, ending an historic 118-day strike   that, and put a pause on TV production, messed with movie releases and basically shut down a huge portion of the entertainment industry. At the   heart of it all was the looming threat of Artificial Intelligence, potentially taking jobs. But now Hollywood studios in the whopping 160,000   actors represented by the SAG-AFTRA Union, well, shaken hands on a new three-year contract, that the union is calling an extraordinary billion-  dollar deal with pay bumps, AI protections, and streaming bonuses and improved benefits.  The actors first walked off July 14th with the Writers Guild union, the writers sorted out their issues back in September, but production remained   halted while the actors kept the picket line going, trying to hash out their contract details. So it looks like it`ll be light, camera, action   once again in Hollywood. Here`s our Brian Todd with more on the AI and other concerns that led to the strike in the first place and how it all got   sorted out. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: For nearly four months, stars like Jessica Chastain, Bob Odenkirk, and others walked the picket lines with their   lesser-known colleagues during an actor strike that raised serious questions about whether the movie and TV industry, as we know it could   survive.  But tonight, a sigh of relief, Hollywood actors have reached a tentative agreement with the major film and TV studios to end the strike.  FRAN DRESCHER, PRESIDENT, SAG-AFTRA: There is so much language in this contract that covers so much new ground that has never been in any of the   contract before. TODD: Specific terms of the deal were not disclosed. And it still has to be ratified by the actors` union members. But according to a statement   released by the union, the deal will give actors the famous and obscure a historic pay increase. SARA FISCHER, CNN MEDIA ANALYST: You have to remember SAG-AFTRA represents 160,000 workers. And these are not necessarily big time, rich actors. A lot   of these folks are just starting out and living paycheck to paycheck. TODD: The agreement also gives actors better residuals for streaming programs, but at the center of the strike was the use of artificial   intelligence, which Hollywood actors and writers have feared could someday replace them, or at least part of their work. The deal calls for actors to   be able to have consent and compensation when an AI likeness of them is used. DUNCAN CRABTREE-IRELAND, CHIEF NEGOTIATOR, SAG-AFTRA: They`re intended to be protections that not only will make sure that our members have the right   to control the use of their image and likeness today. But as the technology develops and grows in the industry will continue to provide them with that   kind of control. And it`s so essential because it`s really their persona that`s being used. TODD: The actors and writers walkouts. The first time both entities had been on strike simultaneously in more than 60 years, proved incredibly   costly over the course of the last six months. In September, California Governor Gavin Newsom estimated the loss for his state`s economy was more   than $5 billion. (On camera): While the actors are getting historically higher pay with this new deal, one industry analyst says there could be less work overall to go   around for them in the future because he expects the studios and streaming services might start to reduce the numbers of TV shows and movies they   order to save money. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Next up, a story you`re going to lava. An underwater volcano erupted off the coast of Japan to form the world`s newest island, formed on October   30th. It`s about a hundred meters in diameter reaches as high as 20 meters according to the Japan meteorological agency. There has been increased   underwater volcanic activity in this area in recent years, but the agency says the formation of this new island is significant. It popped up along   the Japanese archipelago or group of islands, about 750 miles south of Japan in the Pacific Ocean. Only half a mile though, from the Japanese   island of Iwo Jima. It doesn`t have a name yet, so what would you call it?  Ten second trivia. Veterans day began with an observance that marked the end of what war?  U.S. Civil War, World War I, World War II or Vietnam war? The holiday observed on November 11 recalls Armistice Day, which barked the end of World War I. Now for a salute to the troops, Veterans Day in the U.S. is a federal holiday dedicated to recognizing the current and former members in all   branches of the U.S. military. It honors the countless women and men who`ve served in sacrificed for the greater good of all of us, for the nation. The   holiday is observed on November 11th each year, regardless of the day of the week. This year, it was Saturday. Many schools across the states though   had Friday off to honor the occasion in recognition of all who`ve served.  CNN 10 is going to give us salute by exploring the 24-note bugle call referred to as taps. It`s considered the nation`s National Anthem of   Remembrance. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) YARI VILLANEUVA, (ret.) U.S. AIR FORCE, TAPS FOR VETERANS: Of all the military bugle calls, not as more easily recognized, more apt to evoke   emotion than the bugle call taps. Taps is our national song of remembrance. It`s a bugle call that was started during the civil war and is actually   started as a lights out call. But today is used as a final farewell to our military personnel.  My name is Yari Villaneuva. I am currently the President of Taps for Veterans, a nonprofit organization that helps provide live bugles for   military funerals. Taps for veterans came about because we saw a need for live bugles at military funerals. In the late 1990s, a lot of the military   bands were being downsized. And because of that there was a lack of military buglers available to play at funerals.  The electronic bugler has taken precedents over a live musician. And this is something that we thought we could address and something that we could   do better. We could have a live bugler. That was the impetus performing Taps for Veterans.  We thought that it would be great to honor all veterans with a live performance of taps. And setting up a system whereby a family in need could   reach out to us on our website and, and get a bugler so that we could honor that veteran we have. Well, over 1200 buglers around the country who are   willing to step up and serve. The emotion of a person playing it, the music coming from their heart, you know, that goes through the tubing out. That`s out to the people hearing it   is really important. A live performance is just so -- so much preferable over than a recorded one. I mean, no one wants to go to a symphony hall and   sit and listen to a recording of a symphony. They want to see and hear the live musicians playing that. We understand how important it is to have the recording. But it`s really important and paramount that a live bugler be used, especially when you   have one who`s there willing to give their services to honor that veteran. And at the bottom line, that`s what it`s all about, honoring that veteran   for his, or her service through our country. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is one that I could taco about all day long. Longwood, Florida, Nicole Castro and family could barely wait   for 45 bucks worth of taco bell being delivered, but a big old burrito love and black bear barreled its way to the bounty and broke away with a baggage   before they could snag it. The bear was estimated to be between 300 and 400 pounds. That was not your food, bear.  And we`ve got two special shoutouts on the YouTube version of our show today. We are showing some love to Union City, Middle and High School in   Union City, Tennessee, let`s go. And Nicollet Middle School in Burnsville, Minnesota, shine bright. Let`s do this again tomorrow. Shall we? I`m Coy   Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-11-14
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up superstar? Terrific Tuesday to you. Let`s power up, up, up, and make this an awesome day. I`m Coy Wire. This is   CNN 10, where we tell you the what, letting you decide what to think. Tomorrow is #YourWordWednesday. Follow me @coywire on Instagram, Snapchat,   and TikTok. Put your unique vocabulary word and the definition in the comment section of my most recent post, along with your school, city and   state and your teacher`s name, and we`re going to choose a winner to work in to tomorrow`s show.  All right, we start today by traveling to Iceland. The island nation has declared a state of emergency because of a volcano that the country`s   authorities say could erupt any minute. More than 3000 residents have been urged to evacuate the small coastal town of Grindavik on the Southwestern   peninsula of the country. The imminent eruption has been preceded by thousands of earthquakes recorded since Friday. And there is a magma tunnel   that is forming in Grindavik that might break through to the surface.  Grindavik is about 43 miles Southwest of Iceland`s capital city of Reykjavik. Authorities have not issued an evacuation order for the capital,   though, suggesting they don`t believe it would be affected by an eruption.  Now, Iceland sits on a tectonic plate boundary between the North Atlantic and Arctic Oceans, and that plate continually splits farther apart, pushing   North America and Europe farther apart. A powerful mantle plume and area that is hotter than the surrounding magma sits beneath it, which melts and   thins, the Earth`s crust. These conditions have made Iceland home to 32 active volcanoes.  Some effects of the seismic activity are already apparent. Take a look at some of the damage. The seismic activity has already caused. Roads damaged   by the earthquakes, a crumbling tarmac, broken sidewalks and gaping fissures in the road. More now from Michael Holmes, who provides us with   more insight on the events unfolding right now in Iceland. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN ANCHOR (voice-over):  Alarming signs in Iceland, where waves of tremors are shaking and splintering parts of the country and   experts say the seismic activity there is likely to get worse. Thousands of earthquakes have struck Iceland Southwestern peninsula in the last few   days. Geologists say it`s related to an underground corridor of magma that`s shifting and could soon lead to a volcanic eruption. In the town of Grindavik, some 50 kilometers away from the capital of Reykjavik, the ground has already split open in places because of the   volatility under the Earth`s crust. More than 3000 residents were evacuated Saturday with a few allowed back Sunday to retrieve pets and essential   items from their home. Experts say the magma corridor, which stretches about 15 kilometers near Grindavik could cause an eruption and possibly   destroy much of town. VIDIR REYNISSON, ICELAND`S CIVIL PROTECTION & EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT:  The magma is now at a very shallow depth, so we`re expecting an eruption within   a couple of hours at the shortest, but at least within a couple of days. Anywhere on that fissure we can see that an eruption could happen. HOLMES:  Iceland has declared a state of emergency and as a precaution closed the Blue Lagoon, a popular geothermal spa located near Grindavik.   The area near Grindavik is prone to volcanic activity with three eruptions in the past two and a half years. In 2021 fissure measuring as big as 750   meters long spewed fountains of lava into the sky, attracting tourists to the unpopulated hotspot this time around with an entire town potentially   at-risk officials warned this eruption could have far more dangerous consequences. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  There is a rapidly approaching deadline for a federal funding plan, which determines how the U.S. government will use its funds. And the new   House Speaker Mike Johnson is tasked with securing enough votes from both Democrats and Republicans to approve a plan before that deadline, in order   to avoid a partial government shutdown. The deadline is set for this Friday, November 17th. Some of the major sticking points are whether or not   the new plan should include spending cuts in how or if the government should continue to fund Ukraine`s war with Russia. In the event of a government shutdown, federal employees deemed essential workers. For example, military members or law enforcement, they would`ve to   continue working without pay until the government resumes operations. The shutdown could disrupt pay for approximately 4 million federal workers. It   would also close national parks and impair various essential functions ranging from financial oversight to scientific research.  Ten second trivia. What city will host the 2028 Summer Olympics? Paris, Los Angeles, Tokyo, or Rio de Janeiro? If you said Los Angeles, put your hands up. Well, next Summer`s Olympics will be in Paris. The 2028 summer games will be in L.A.  Raise your hand, if you play football or flag football. Now, let me ask you this. Do you think you have what it takes to be an Olympian and represent   your country playing, flag football four years from now? Why not, right? Well, flag football is coming to the 2028 Olympic games. It`s exciting   news, especially for women`s flag. There are about a half a million girls under the age of 17 playing in the U.S. right now. I caught up with Hall of   Fame quarterback, Steve Young, who coaches his daughter`s high school team to get his thoughts on the big news. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) STEVE YOUNG, PRO-FOOTBALL HALL OF FAMER: When you think about 2028 and the Olympics that I`m telling you, you`re going to see a flag, woman`s flag   football explosion like you`ve never seen. You`re going to have -- I mean, they`re going to be millions of girls playing flag football. And the -- and   what I will tell you is working with the girls. They are coachable. They listen, the competition`s going to be fierce. The expertise is going to be   fierce. Because I can see just in a couple of months, the girls have gotten exponentially better. WIRE:  Steve, you`re coaching your daughters` high school football team, Summer and Laila, how did that come about? YOUNG:  In the spring, California announced they`re going to have high school girls like football. And my senior daughter was so excited. I   thought, oh great, that`s going to be fun. And then they asked me to come over to help maybe work with the quarterbacks or whatever. It just -- it   was lark, right? It was just fun. And the first moment I got over there, I was blown away at their sense of, "Oh my gosh, I no longer love football   because I get to watch it. I now love football because I get to play it." WIRE:  What does it mean to you to have your daughter Summer wearing your number eight when she`s out there on that field? YOUNG:  He made me tear up. When my daughter says I want to play football and then dad, teach me how to throw. And I want to be really good. And then   Laila who`s my other daughter starts to play in 9th Grade. As a dad, you don`t have to have football in her home. The fact that it does connect with my previous life in kind of a way that brings it home to   me. And then it`s my girls like it -- I don`t know, it hits in a -- it hits in a soft spot. It hits in a very, very soft spot. And I`m really grateful   for that. WIRE:  There`s been some talk of current NFL players would be interested in playing in those Olympic games. Let`s say Steve Young, you are the   quarterback of the first ever team USA at L.A. 2028, who is going to be some of the candidates for your first-round draft pick on your team? YOUNG:  This game is all about the ability to spin and Barry Sanders in his prime would be the greatest -- you know, Lamar Jackson, you know the guys   that can just -- Michael Vick, the guys that can just make people miss, you know, can just change direction. Jerry Rice was a change direction like in   a flash. Those are the guys that are going to thrive in flag football.  And so if I was playing today, I`m in. I`m going to go -- I`m going to go try out. There`s no way you`re going to keep me out of the Olympics. If I   have a shot to play football in the Olympics, I will tell my team, you know, I`ll see you when I see you. You know, with my gold medal around my   neck. And I think you`re right, I think there will be some NFL players that will say I`m in, and I`m going to go for it. And they -- well, I would   suggest, you know what, maybe you`re just bring this out to me. I`m going to go put together an NFL team that`ll get ready for `28. And at least I   can captain it. Maybe I can go out for the honorary coin flip or something or, you know, maybe throw some passes in the cleanup time. I could still   throw it. So maybe I could do that. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a pond that`ll tickle you pink. Check out this pond in Hawaii. It looks like something straight out   of a fairytale. The water at Kealia Pond National Wildlife Refuge has been this magnificent shade of magenta since at least October 30th. Why? Good   question. An elaborate prank, a Barbie pool party, maybe. But more likely water sample suggests that the cause is halobacteria organisms that thrive   in hypersaline or very salty waters. These halobacteria are also found in places like the dead sea in the Middle East and the Great Salt Lake in   Utah. This particular ponds salt level has skyrocketed well beyond normal because of Maui`s extreme drought.  Today, I want to give a special shout out to North Whidbey Middle School in Oak Harbor, Washington, shine bright superstars. Our other shutout today   goes to Massabesic Middle School in Waterboro, Maine, we see you. We hope you and everyone watching around the world, have a wonderful one. I`m Coy   Wire and we are CNN 10. END END     

Date: 2023-11-15
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up sunshine. It`s Wednesday, November 15th, halfway through the week, and we`re going to keep on grinding and shining   because that`s what we do. Thank you for your epic Your Word Wednesday submissions. See if your word made it in today`s show.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we start with the latest on the war between Israel and Hamas. We`re getting access rarely seen to this point.   CNN, along with other news media outlets was invited to embed with the Israel Defense Forces on a trip inside Gaza, to be very clear. Journalists   traveled only with Israeli military and were limited to seeing only with Israeli military allowed them to see.  Now, you know, we`ve been showing you footage of what`s happening from inside Gaza, where much of that has been coming from residents and local   reporters who are already living inside Gaza, doing so under dangerous conditions. According to the committee to protect journalists, dozens of   people have died while working to get the news out. Until now, the Israeli military has prevented outside journalists from entering the region with   limited exceptions.  We`re about to show you one of those exceptions, but first we want to zoom out to see the larger picture. The Israeli military has come under   increasing condemnation because of its attacks around Gaza`s hospitals. And because those hospitals are suffering without supplies or electricity, both   limited by Israeli military activity.  The World Health Organization said there have been 137 attacks on hospitals in Gaza at the time we recorded this show, normally under international   humanitarian law, hospitals are protected in times of war. Except when those sites are believed to be bases of military activity. While Hamas and   medical officials in Gaza say hospitals there are not being used by Hamas militants, Israel is saying they are. And so Israel took members of the   press, including CNN`s Nic Robertson on a rare tour through Gaza, which you`ll see right now.  CNN reported from Gaza under Israel Defense Forces escort at all times, CNN did not submit its script or footage to the IDF and has retained editorial   control over the final report. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice-over): Driving into Gaza with the Israeli forces, it`s a war zone. The conditions of our   access only show officers, no faces of soldiers and don`t show sensitive equipment. We are passing mile after mile of destruction, buildings blown,   collapsed nothing untouched by the fury of Israel`s hunt for Hamas. Streets here crushed back to sand.  (On camera): Shops, everything that we see, no sign of any civilians here and the soldiers have been telling us that even inside the stores they`ve   been fighting things like rocket propel grenades, ready to use against them as they were advancing through this area.  (Voice-over): A few miles in, we pull up at a command post. Soldiers living in blown apartment buildings.  (On camera): Every building I`m looking at here, wherever you turn is destroyed, it shut up, hard to imagine how civilians endured the   bombardment here.  (Voice-over): Our next journey, much deeper into Gaza. We arrive a hundred meters from a battle with Hamas. Tanks blasting targets in nearby   buildings. The IDF`s top spokesperson, waiting for us.  BRIG. GEN. DANIEL HAGARI, ISRAEL DEFENSE SPOKESPERSON: We`re now conducting an operation inside Gaza, next to MTC (ph) Hospital.  ROBERTSON: Israel is facing massive international pressure over the destruction of homes, the shockingly high civilian death toll. And in the   last few days over it`s apparently heavy-handed tactics at hospitals. HAGARI: We are searching the tunnel with the bulldozers to reveal the tunnels that we suspect that underneath the hospital. ROBERTSON (voice-over): As we finally reached the hospital, it is already getting dark. A huge hole has been blasted through the walls, into the   basement.  (On camera): Why is the hospital so damaged? We`ll talk -- why is the hospital so damage like this? HAGARI: So I`ll explain. It`s an important question.  ROBERTSON: Yeah, it is.  HAGARI: We came to this hospital five days ago. There was still patients inside the hospital. We did not enter into the hospital. ROBERTSON: He claims since then all patients were evacuated by hospital staff. HAGARI: We assist this evacuation of course, to make it a safe pass for all the patients in the hospital. We do not know that the hospital is entirely   clear. We do not know. We only entered to this area, which was -- which was suspected because we are being fired. ROBERTSON: Hagari leads us through a warren of basement corridors to this room. HAGARI: This was the armory. OK. This was the Hamas armory.  ROBERTSON: Yeah.  (Voice-over): He shows us a few rusting guns and some explosives. These guns alone have potentially huge implications for Gaza`s hospitals. And   Israel`s apparent push to take control of them.  (On camera): The International Committee for the Red Cross say that hospitals are given special protection under international humanitarian law   in a time of war. But if militant store weapons there or use them as a base of fire, then that protection falls away.  (Voice-over): In other rooms, he shows us a motorbike with a bullet hole in it that he suspects was used by Hamas attackers, October 7th.  (On camera): But the hospital authorities said they have no knowledge of Hamas or other groups inside their hospitals. Is that possible?  HAGARI: I think it`s not possible for a hospital to have this kind of an infrastructure. We knew the terrorists were here. We knew --  ROBERTSON: How did you know?  HAGARI: We knew by intelligence and also we got some fire from this area. ROBERTSON: From this area, this building? HAGARI: From this area and we were right to fire because what we found an armory. ROBERTSON: But so much damage all around here. HAGARI: Yeah, there is damage all around here because Hamas made it impossible for us to fight them. They built all this infrastructure in   tunnels and in hospital around areas populated. ROBERTSON (voice-over): As we exit the hospital, it is already dark.  (On camera): We`re just getting ready to leave right now. The firefights still going on, still intense bullets fired explosions going on up the   street there. (Voice-over): This war and the controverses surrounding it far from resolved. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia. In terms of sales, what is America`s largest retailer?  Costco, Home Depot, Amazon, or Walmart? Your answer here is Walmart, topping the list almost doubling Amazon sales in 2022 with 600 billion.  Who`s a fan of self-checkout outlines at your favorite retailer or grocery store? Some people love them. Some say I prefer a perfectly fine friendly   human to help me with my purchases, please.  Well, some major retailers are starting to say goodbye to self-checkout lines. The machines were first introduced in the 1980s becoming more widely   used in the early 2000s as stores look to cut costs and higher fewer cashiers. Well it turns out that utilizing self-service stations are   actually leading to greater losses than human cashiers. Whether it be from accidental customer errors or from intentional shoplifting.  One study found incontrovertible proof that companies with self-checkout machines had a loss rate of about 4%. That`s more than double the industry   average. Some attempts to fix these issues like adding weight sensors have only led to further customer frustration.  So far Walmart, ShopRite, Costco and the U.K.`s boots have all started to dial back their self-checkout strategy. What do you say? Good idea or bad   idea?  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 highlights the power of imagination. You`ve often heard me say that if there`s something you want to achieve,   you have to see it before you see it. Meaning you see it in your mind`s eye before you actually see it come to fruition.  Well, first grade teacher, Ms. Sonja White at Trinity Leadership School in Texas, wanted to give her students an imaginary experience of taking a trip   on an airplane. But what ended up happening was a dream come true. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Texas teacher, Sonja White staged a mock trip to Mexico for her students. SONJA WHITE: I`m going to change my classroom into an airplane. MOOS: The first graders at Trinity Leadership School flew Southwest airlines. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Where are you going? UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mexico. MOOS: With their carryon luggage and even neck pillows. WHITE: So now I`m a TSA agent. MOOS: A video of takeoff set the move. Their teacher transformed into a flight attendant. WHITE: Apple juice. MOOS: After an apparently bumpy landing, look at this kid`s face. They arrived in Mexico. WHITE: They are going through customs. I am now a customs agent. MOOS: The trip went viral, got rave reviews, best teacher ever. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: All right superstars, huge congrats to @Kendraspecs (ph) on Instagram and Mrs. Nightaker`s (ph) class in Winooski, Vermont, you submitted today`s   #YourWordWednesday winner, incontrovertible, an adjective, meaning not able to be denied or disputed. Well done.  Now shout out time. This shout out goes to the Coyotes of Dora Consolidated Schools in Dora, New Mexico, awooo. This shout out goes to the Cougars   Pinecrest Academy Cadence in Henderson, Nevada, rise up. Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube Channel. I`m Coy Wire and   we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-11-16
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello sunshine. Let`s get our energy up, up, up. It`s Thursday, November 16th. Happy Friday Eve. I`m Coy Wire. We are CNN   10. And we start with a gathering of world leaders. This week in San Francisco, the United States is hosting representatives from the APEC or   the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation. And that`s just what it is. APEC formed in 1989 is now made up of 21 countries that all touched the Pacific   Ocean from Thailand to Australia to Chile.  Now, these countries work together to create agreements that help strengthen the members` economies by improving relations and promoting   trade. Now, one way they can do that is by limiting tariffs. A tariff is a tax added to goods coming in from other countries. The thinking is that   when imports are more expensive, people will be more inclined to buy goods that are already made at home. But countries love and need to export to bring more money into their economy. So limiting tariffs between each other that can be friendly and   profitable. Tariffs, the climate and the war in the Middle East are just a few of the many topics up for discussion at this year`s APEC summit.   There`s also a much-anticipated meeting between U.S. President, Joe Biden, and China`s President, Xi Jinping. Here`s Marc Stewart with more (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MARC STEWART, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  This highly anticipated meeting between Chinese President Xi Jinping and U.S. President Joe Biden   is a big deal. It was in February that a Chinese balloon was shot down over American airspace, adding even more tension to an already frosting   relationship.  But things have since stabilized during this highly anticipated meeting in California, don`t expect the two sides to come to an agreement on authority   issues such as Taiwan or human rights. But rather officials say this is an opportunity to set some barriers and limit to create some calm between the   two nations.  Right now, both nations are witnessing the war in Ukraine, as well as the war between Israel and Hamas. This meeting is a chance to prevent the   relations between the U.S. and China, from deteriorating, with the goal of creating some stability. Despite the differences, this is also a chance to   build on economic relations. As both nations have benefited from trade.  This meeting comes as both President Xi and President Biden face domestic challenges of their own. Marc Stewart, CNN Beijing.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next up, there is a milk shortage in cafeterias all across the country, but it`s not because there`s not enough milk to go around. The   U.S. Department of Agriculture or USDA says multiple states are affected by supply chain issues related to packaging. It`s a dairy precarious situation   for distributors who sell cartons of milk to places like schools, nursing homes and correctional facilities. They`re running out of the cartons that   hold the milk. Typically public schools are required to offer fat free 1% or flavored milk at breakfast and lunch. But the USDA is relaxing these   requirements for now. As some schools are transitioning to alternatives like juice, shelf stable milk, and bottled water. Some have even considered   pouring individual cups from big jugs of milk themselves. There`s no certain timeframe for when this shortage might end. Ten second trivia.  Maputo is the capital city of what African nation? Mozambique, Morocco, Mali, or Madagascar? Maputo is a port city, the largest city and capital city of Mozambique. That`s the correct answer here.  All right, let`s dive on in now to the aqua marine waters around Mozambique considered some of the richest in the world, full of fauna and marine life.   It`s a hotspot for people who love to dive. And for researchers looking to work with coastal sea life. The diving industry there could be a big part   of the local economy by employing Mozambicans and by helping to promote sustainability, could be but it`s not, at least not yet. Check this out. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Mozambique has one of the longest coastlines in Africa, with an abundance in marine life.  ANDREA MARSHALL, CO-FOUNDER, MARINE MEGAFAUNA FOUNDATION:  In some areas of the world, you can go and dive with whales, or you can go and dive with   whale sharks, or you can go and dive with mantas. Here we have it all. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Making it a prime spot for divers, boosting local jobs and ocean conservation. MARSHALL:  One of the things that the diving community can do is shine a light on, on some of these areas, especially here in Africa that have been   so undervalued for so long. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  This is Mozambique`s diving scene. MARSHALL:  I was just so enthralled by what I saw here. I just -- I mean, you could walk over the backs of mantas and whale sharks. They littered the   surface of the water and just so many megafauna  whales and dolphins and marlin jumping out. And I just thought, what is this place? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  World Renown Conservation Biologist, Andrea Marshall, has been working in Mozambique for past 20 years. MARSHALL:  I was talking to people about, you know, these diving destinations that revolve around a single species. People will fly across the world to go to a location where you can dive with humpbacks or people will fly across the world to go to a destination   with just whale sharks. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Nicknamed clean of the mantas for her pioneering research work on manta rays. Andrea is using her fame to highlight other   endangered species and ocean habitats. MARSHALL:  Over the course of my career, I started to see that there was a lot of anti-anthropogenic threats that were starting to creep in. we   started to see a lot of influence from industrial fishing moving in, and even the artesian fishermen that -- that are kind of subsistence fishing   along the coast, started using more aggressive gears, like long lines and gill nets here. And I started to see a decline in a lot of the populations   of the animals that we were studying.  And so I realized that when I finished my Ph.D., if I was to move on that none of this information would be captured that this conservation probably   wouldn`t take off here. And so for us, it meant, well, if we`re going to take this journey, it might be a 40 or 50- or 60-year journey, but I`m all   in. I mean, that`s, what I want to do is, is protect this coastline. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Andrea believes that a thriving dive industry will help make ocean conservation a bigger priority for local communities. MARSHALL:  Connecting people with nature is the most powerful way to be able to effectively switch that light on and make them care. One of the   things I`m really excited about is the synergy that`s forming here in the coastal communities between dive center operators and government,   scientists, other stakeholders, basically everybody wants the same thing. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  And as the diving team develops further, Andrea is keen for sustainability to be a priority. MARSHALL:  Tourism actually is one of the biggest threats to the environment that you can get. And it`s been shown through a lot of   different scientific studies.  We also have to be careful with how we develop tourism. The dive centers here in Mozambique, because they`re working with researchers, have become   really aware of, you know, what the limits are and how they probably don`t want to develop this area too quickly. Because it`s very difficult to wind   things back when they get out of control. It`s much better to develop things slowly and sustainably. We have to show caution and we just have to   put the animals and the environments first. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, we`re drawing attention to the world`s largest pencil collection. Aaron Bartholmey of Iowa got into   his hobby of pencil collecting as a first grader, collecting everywhere from local businesses to flea markets. He even has a pencil that`s 100   years old.  Now, Aaron didn`t know how many of them he had until he learned the Guinness World Record was 24,000. But I hope the old record wasn`t written   in pencil because when Aaron put in the work of counting all of his 69,255 pencils, he became the new Guinness world record holder. And even though   his collection has already rewritten the record books, he`s already in the hunt for more. Right on Aaron. Well done. I`m more of a pen guy. Pencils   are kind of sketchy.  I have some puns about broken pencils, I could tell, but they`re pointless. That technically wasn`t our top 10 out of 10. It was a number two. Our best   story today is going to you, especially the superstars at Woodlawn Leadership Academy in Shreveport, Louisiana, Knight, you keep on shining   bright. And Whitefish High School, the Bulldogs in Whitefish, Montana. Much love, many blessings, I`ve got a date with you. Pins within for tomorrow,   Friday. I`m Coy Wire. And we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-11-17
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up sunshine, go on and smell the flowers and cool the soup. It`s Friday. We are going to finish this week, strong   kick our weekend off, right? I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, it`s Friday, November 17th. And we start with some travel news.  If you`re traveling for Thanksgiving, have some patience because next week is expected to be the busiest in years. The American Automobile Association   or AAA predicts that more than 55 million people will be traveling during the five-day period from Wednesday to Sunday.  Now, if you`re traveling by plane, the transportation security administration expects a record high number of travelers at American   airports. On the Sunday after Thanksgiving alone, TSA is preparing to screen nearly 3 million people at airports across the nation. So bring a   good game, bring a book, something to brace yourself for potentially long lines.  There is a positive here though. Demand for travel has just continued to grow after the pandemic and post-COVID work trends with hybrid and remote   schedules. Now, let people leave for the holidays at different times. That might be good news for drivers say, because the longer travel period could   make the usual peak traffic days, a little less busy than they used to be like. Can you guess what those days are? The Wednesday before Thanksgiving   and the Sunday after. Still most Americans may be returning from the holidays on Sunday. That`ll make it the busiest air travel day of the year. That`s according to the   aviation firm Cirium. It expects airlines to fly more than 3 million seats on 22,000 flights that day. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  If you are traveling over the Thanksgiving holiday, pack your patients, it`s expected to be a record setting travel season in   the skies and a busy one on the roads. AIXA DIAZ, AAA SPOKESWOMAN:  The trend is that, people are still traveling in very large volumes.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  AAA is forecasting 55.4 million people will be traveling to their holiday destinations, including more than 49 million who   will drive to their destination between the Wednesday before Thanksgiving and the Sunday after the holiday, if you are hitting the road, AAA says   that Wednesday afternoon is still the worst time to hit the roads with AAA recommending you leave on actual Thanksgiving day.  DIAZ:  It shortens the amount of time that you`re at your destination, but it also shortens the amount of time that you`re in transit. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The Sunday after Thanksgiving is also brutal, but not as busy as it could be. DIAZ:  Hybrid schedules and remote schedules have changed everything because now people can leave for holiday travel at different times. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  If you are taking to the skies, brace yourself for packed airports and possible delays and cancellations, the transportation   security administration is bracing for an all-time record number of passengers at airports nationwide on this Sunday after Thanksgiving.  So what can you do to minimize the chaos at the airport? One travel expert says avoid checking a bag in case your flight gets canceled and you`re   moved to a different one, take public transit to the airport or book your parking spot online now, and finally give yourself plenty of time, be   flexible and very patient. SCOTT KEYES, FOUNDER OF GOING.COM:  There`s always going to be some amount of cancellation that happen as long as we have bad weather. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next up, we`re headed to the south Asian country of Nepal. Nepal`s government decided to ban TikTok. They say it was disrupting family and   social structures. Nepal isn`t the only country where a popular app with 1 billion monthly active users is now banned. India put a ban on TikTok three   years ago, and the U.S., Canada, Australia and New Zealand put restrictions on the app because of security concerns. Nepal, however, had a different reason to ask internet providers to cut access to TikTok throughout the country. Citing local media, Reuters   reported that more than 1,600 TikTok related cybercrime cases have been registered over the last four years in Nepal. Nepal`s Prime Minister said   that the government had a long discussion on how to control the tendency to spread disharmony, disorder, and chaos in society and decided that a ban on   TikTok was needed.  Now pop quiz, hot shot. Ten second trivia. Which state has the lowest population density in the U.S.? Hawaii, Alaska, Montana, or Wyoming? Wyoming has the lowest population overall, but Alaska, which is by far, the largest state has the lowest population density. All right, we`re headed to   Alaska now where this weekend a town in the very Northern part of the U.S., which is located north of the Arctic circle will see the sun for the last   time in two months, our Meteorologist Allison Chinchar is here to explain why ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST: That`s right, Coy. Just before 2:00 p.m. on Saturday, the sun will go down in the town of Utqiagvik, Alaska,   formerly known as Barrow. And it will not come back again for 66 more days. That`s right, the sun go down on Saturday and comes back on January 23rd of   next year.  Now, this happens every single year. It`s called polar night, and it`s a common occurrence for a lot of these areas and what we call the Arctic   circle. So here you can see exactly where the town is located at the very northernmost point of Alaska, putting it inside the Arctic circle. That   means for several weeks during the winter, they go into a phase of complete darkness. The sun never fully rises.  Now, on the flip side, Coy, in the summer, the opposite happens where they will have 24 straight hours of daylight as the sun never truly sets for   several weeks in the summer. WIRE:  Today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, an unusual new use of fall foliage. By the way, did you know that warm colors of autumn leaves are   always present? They`re just hidden by the abundance of green chlorophyll during the warmer months. You see in the fall leaves stop their food making   process and the chlorophyll declines. The green color fades away to reveal all the other colors hidden beneath.  Now, check this out, at the Point Defiance Zoo in Tacoma, Washington, a baby ox named Willow came up with a fun way to enjoy the new fall foliage. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  You know how in the fall zoos are always giving their animals, squashes to squish, pumpkins   to spear with their horns, the zoos call it enrichment. It gives the animals something new to do and a photo-op for the press.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This is her first time with a big leaf pile.  MOOS:  We think you`ll really fall for this fall ritual featuring Willow. the baby muskox. Willow is a little over two months old. She lives with her   mother, Charlotte. Willow was born here at the Point Defiance Zoo in Tacoma, Washington, a girl who loves to headbutt her red ball and splash   around, in puddles, and now this.  (On camera):  Willow really seems to be in the fall foliage. TELENA WELSH, CURATOR, POINT DEFIANCE ZOO:  She loves it. The leaves are one of her favorite things MOOS:  Raked into a pile by the keepers. WELSH:  And she just went wild.  MOOS:  The name Willow totally suits her because it`s one of her favorite foods, but the pile consists of maple leaves.  WELSH:  If it was all Willow leaves, she`d probably eat that entire batch of leaves. MOOS:  Eat it rather than frolic in it. Either one is a barrel of fun. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  What an awesome week we`ve had. We took you to Japan, to Iceland. We followed the stories from the depth of the ocean to the mountaintops. We   learned a lot, laughed a little and showed a whole bunch of love.  Shout out time. Cinnaminson Middle School in Cinnaminson, New Jersey go Pirates. And shout out to, Mighty Spartans at W.T. Chipman Middle School at   Harrington, Delaware, rise up. Have an awesome weekend, everyone. I`ll be here with you Monday and Tuesday. Remember you are more powerful than, you   know. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END 

Date: 2023-11-20
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up sunshine. Hope you had an awesome weekend. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news because   of you. It`s November 20th. And we start today with the perfect story for this motivation Monday. You know, American inventor, Thomas Edison once   said, "Our greatest weakness lies in giving up. The most certain way to succeed is always to try just one more time."  And here`s a good example of one company that`s not given up. SpaceX`s Starship spacecraft sat atop the most powerful rocket ever built. And it   lifted off on Saturday morning from Boca Chica, Texas, but not everything went according to play. The deep space rocket mission ended early with an   explosion and a loss of signal several minutes after liftoff. SpaceX, the company that made the 232-foot-tall rocket and the spacecraft spent months   rebuilding them after a previous explosive initial launch, back in April.  The root cause of the Starship rocket`s failure this time around wasn`t immediately clear. SpaceX said in a test like this, success comes from what   they learn and they can learn how to build a better rocket more quickly by flying and occasionally exploding early prototypes rather than only relying   on ground testing and computer modeling. For more on the launch in SpaceX`s bigger goal for Starship to carry up to 100 humans to Mars, here`s CNN`s   Kristin Fisher. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT: Engineers at SpaceX will spend the next several days and weeks pouring over all of this data,   trying to figure out what exactly went wrong. But this is what SpaceX likes to do. They like to push their rockets and their spacecrafts all the way to   the point of failure, because that`s how they learn. They`ve done that with all of their older, successful rockets and spacecrafts, and now they`re   trying to do it with Starship, the biggest, most powerful rocket to ever fly. And someday, the ultimate goal is for this rocket to allow and carry   up to 100 humans to the surface of Mars and ultimately colonize Mars and make humanity multi-planetary. That`s the goal.  But first, SpaceX has to get this thing up into orbit. And the test flight on Saturday was a success in that 33 engines did fire, all of them. The   launch pad survived. There was successful stage separation between the booster and the spacecraft on top. And it did make it up far past where it   flew on its first failed flight test back in April. It made it all the way up to the edge of space. But then something happened, and that`s why this   test flight was also a failure. There were two explosions. Both the booster and the spacecraft exploded after separating, and the spacecraft, if all   had gone according to plan, was supposed to make almost a complete lap of planet Earth and then splash down in the Pacific Ocean. That is what`s   characterized as a mishap by the FAA. They are now investigating a mishap with SpaceX. It`s an investigation that SpaceX will lead, but it`s now   unclear exactly how long that will take before SpaceX is given the green light to fly again.  But NASA Administrator Bill Nelson, who needs the Starship spacecraft in order to land NASA astronauts on the surface of the moon as part of its   Artemis program, congratulated SpaceX yesterday and said that Saturday`s test flight was a sign of real progress.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: For our next story, let`s go to New Delhi, the capital of India, which was ranked the world`s most polluted city last week by the tech   company IQAir, which tracks air quality around the globe. Primary schools were forced to close. Road traffic was restricted and construction was put   on hold because of a dense smog over New Delhi. CNN`s Vedika Sud has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VEDIKA SUD, CNN REPORTER: What you see around me is a thick, dense layer of pollution. The air outside is so toxic that even with a mask on, I can   taste it. If you`re out for too long, the eyes begin to burn and the throat hurts. Around this time, every year, this smog shrouds India`s capital city   obscuring the skyline and putting more than 20 million people at risk. On a bad day, New Delhi`s pollution levels are nearly 80 times the limit recommended by the World Health Organization. So why is Delhi one of the   most polluted cities in the world? One major factor is crop burning, which can be better understood from above. Satellite images shared by NASA show   thousands of fire set by farmers over the last few weeks in Delhi`s neighboring states. They do this annually to clear the fields after harvest   for the next year`s crops. That`s from roads and construction sites, vehicle emissions and industrial pollution are also major contributors to   Delhi`s toxic care.  As winter approaches, the cold air acts as a blanket covering the ground trapping air pollutants. And as for the geography, deli is a landlord city,   limiting options to flush out polluted air. With multiple causes and no one solution, this pollution crisis will not be easy to solve. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Did you know that among jellyfish, there is one species that may be immortal. When threatened sick or old, these jellyfish start to create   younger versions of themselves that will grow up into an adult identical version. I`m a little bit jellous. how about you? Well, a jellyfish boom is   now happening in the U.K. and Ireland, according to the Marine Conservation Society, we asked its data expert Angus Jackson, to explain the why. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: There`s a jellyfish boom in the U.K. and Ireland, according to a new report. The Marine conservation society has revealed a   32% increase in jellyfish sightings compared to last year. The charity`s annual report is based on data sent in by the public. Those sightings are   then analyzed for interesting patterns, such as changes in species or long- term trends in population sizes. So what`s behind the rise of jellyfish sightings? DR. ANGUS JACKSON, SEASEARCH DATA OFFICER: As waters warm in springtime, jellyfish start to grow and reproduce. And when the conditions are really   good, when the water`s warm, when there`s lots of food available, that reproduction can happen really very, very quickly. Under those conditions,   the numbers of jellyfish at sea can get to be very large. If that coincide with storms or onshore winds, these blooms of jellyfish are blown in   towards the coast where they accumulate and appear even more dense. If the public happened to be there at that time, that`s when there are more and   more observations. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This year, ocean temperatures have reached record levels with some parts experiencing intense and unprecedented heat waves,   but experts say we can`t solely attribute the jellyfish boom to climate change. JACKSON: Whether we can say the large numbers this year are a consequence of climate change, I wouldn`t want to do that simply because there are so   many other variables that contribute to that large reproduction if we see increasing temperatures into the future, it wouldn`t be surprising if the   numbers are jellyfish increased as a consequence. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia.  For U.S. currency, who is pictured on the $50 bill?  Ulysses S. Grant, Benjamin Franklin, Andrew Jackson, or Alexander Hamilton? Answer is the 18th President of the United States, Ulysses S. Grant. That`s the $50 dude.  The United States government printed a record number of $50 bills last year. Did you know? And it has nothing to do with inflation when the money   supply grows and the currency begins losing its purchasing power. What happened with this somewhat unpopular denomination is the federal reserve   discovered that during the pandemic people started hoarding cash and it`s easier to squirrel away, bigger bills.  So the Fed ordered a big uptick in fifties and printed more than 750 million of them. That was the highest total in 40 years. Before the   pandemic, the $50 bill had been one of the rarest bills, perhaps one reason there`s an old superstition that because President Ulysses S. Grant is on   the face of this denomination and he notoriously went bankrupt, perhaps the bills are jinx. But some other reasons people might avoid them are because   these bills sometimes get confused with $5 bills. And a lot of stores don`t even accept bills larger than a 20. For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, Australian surfer, Laura Enever breaking a world record, riding a giant wave. You got to check this out.   The wave she faced was over 43 feet or 13 meters high, no other female surfer had ever even paddled into a wave that large. Laura`s feet has now   been certified by Guinness World Records and the World Surf League. That`s a swell achievement. Well done.  That`s it for the first of our two shows this week. After tomorrow`s show, we`re going to take a small break for Thanksgiving and be right back here   with you next week. We had so many inspiring stories about resilience today. We hope they lifted you up, up, up.  It is shout out time now. Shout out to Mill Pond School in Westboro, Massachusetts, keep shining, superstars. And shout out to Rooftop Middle   School in San Francisco, California, rise up. See you tomorrow lovely people. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-11-21
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up lovely people. It`s our last show of the week as the team and hopefully all of you get to take a few days away to   ruminate on all that we can be thankful for in this world. One thing we`re grateful for, you especially all our educators out there. Let`s make this a   teacher time Tuesday, shall we? Go on and give your teacher a handshake, high five or fist bump. Let them know, I see you. Keep on inspiring,   uplifting and gifting us with your love for learning.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we start today with news on the passing of former First Lady Rosalynn Carter, wife of the 39th President of the   United States, Jimmy Carter. In a statement from the Carter Center, the nonprofit organization founded by the former President and First Lady, Ms.   Rosalynn passed away peacefully with her family by her side at her home in Georgia on Sunday.  Mrs. Carter was diagnosed with dementia in May, then entered hospice care toward the end of last week. She was 96 years old.  Rosalynn and Jimmy Carter were married for more than 77 years, longer than any couple to have taken up residence at the White House.  President Carter served as a single-term president from 1977 to 1981, but the couple was very active in their post-White House years. Rosalynn played   an instrumental role for their humanitarian work by establishing the Carter Center and being an advocate for affordable housing while working alongside   Habitat for Humanity for more than 30 years.  Rosalynn was her husband`s heart and soul. The former President said in a statement, "Rosalynn was my equal partner in everything I ever   accomplished. She gave me wise guidance, and encouragement when I needed it. As long as Rosalynn was in the world, I always knew somebody loved and   supported me." Ceremonies for the former First Lady are slated to take place next week. More now on Rosalynn Carter`s legacy and reaction from President Joe Biden   and First Lady Jill Biden.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Tributes continue pouring in for the late Rosalynn Carter.  JOE BIDEN, (D) U.S. PRESIDENT: They`re really an incredible family because they brought so much grace to the office. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The former First Lady died Sunday after entering hospice care on Friday. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: She was well known for her efforts on mental health and caregiving and women`s rights. So I hope that during the holidays   you`ll consider saying -- you include the Carter family in your prayers.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mrs. Carter was actively involved in her husband`s presidency and a strong advocate for equal treatment of the mentally ill.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Nobody talked to each other about their own mental illness at all. And now to see that actually people can recover is the   greatest thing.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But it was the couple`s work after leaving the White House that would leave the longest legacy redefining and revolutionizing   the post-presidency.  In 1981, they spearheaded a new challenge, joining with Habitat for Humanity, building houses for the poor. A year later, they established the   Carter Center, a foundation devoted to promoting human rights, resolving conflicts and eradicating diseases.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I`m proud of the work of the Carter Center, which has developed to become one of the most admired and respected institutions, not   only nationally but internationally.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia.  On which island chain would you find the town of Kitty Hawk, where the first airplane flight was made?  Outer Banks, Florida Keys, Sea Islands, or Elizabeth Islands?  If you said Outer Banks, put your hands up. Back in 1903, the right flyer made the first piloted airplane flight on the Outer Banks of North   Carolina. Our next story is pretty fly. It`s about some students who could very well be the right brothers and sisters of the now. They spend their   school week in an airplane hangar at JFK Airport in Queens at the Aviation Career and Technical High School. They take traditional school courses, but   they also get their hands on mechanic training to help propeller them on a path in the aviation industry.  Put your lap trays and seat backs in the upright and locked position. Let`s go.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ANTONY SUMBA, STUDENT AT AVIATION HIGH SCHOOL: There`s a lot of opportunity in this aviation that a lot of high school don`t have.  (OFF MIC) WIRE: These aren`t paid airplane mechanics or professional repair technicians. They`re students at Aviation High School in Queens, New York.  STEVEN R. JACKSON, PRINCIPAL AT AVIATION HIGH SCHOOL: Aviation High School is a public New York City high school that is also a federal aviation   administration regulated aviation maintenance school. We are one of the largest in the country. All the traditional high school coursework plus   hands-on work that can get them a job in the aviation industry right after high school.  WIRE: At Aviation, students learn every aspect of the plane. They specialize in certifications that allow them to succeed in careers in   aircraft management and manufacturing, taking on roles as airplane mechanics, air traffic controllers, and flight dispatchers as soon as they   graduate.  JACKSON: We want to make sure that they`re in class every day, that they`re studying every day, that they`re getting all their jobs done properly.   Because again, there`s people`s lives at stake when they get into their workforce to work on airplanes that we all fly.  JAMES DASCAOU, STUDENT AT AVIATION HIGH SCHOOL: You know there`s like so many different parts of the plane that you really need to have some idea of   each section and really every single class prepares you somewhat for that road into the aviation field.  WIRE: Like other career and technical high schools, Aviation High struggles with recruiting women. In fact, women make up less than 10% of all skilled   trade jobs across the country.  ALEXIS CONNO, STUDENT AT AVIATION HIGH SCHOOL: I think in any class I`m in, there`s less than 10 girls in that class. Every day, I feel like I have to   prove myself, and that`s hard. But it`s very rewarding when I finish at the same pace that the boys do.  WIRE: Getting into Aviation High isn`t easy. In 2023, just over 4,000 applicants competed for only 500 seats at the school. Students traveled by   train, bus, and ferry from all over New York City commuting up to two and half hours to attend the school.  SUMBA: So it`s very early mornings. Sometimes, like currently I have to be here about like 6:30 because I`m coming to practice in for my licensing. I   mean, it`s worth the commute to come here to do what I`m doing right now. But it is sometimes very lengthy.  JACKSON: Vocational programs are definitely now getting a lot more focus and schools like ours that are aligned with the industry that has huge need   of course is creating another major focus for education systems across the country. The numbers they`re predicting the desire for airlines to find   technicians yesterday is already felt so it`s something that we`re dealing with. They`re putting together packages to try and lure technicians to   their company because the need is so huge. CONNO: You see the world and you`re not locked down at a desk. You`re always doing something different.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: All right, all you turkeys, we are headed right into the middle and maybe the madness of Thanksgiving week, specifically when it comes to   travel. This is expected to be the busiest, our roadways and airways have been in years. On top of that, we`re also looking down the eye of some   serious storms. Old Mother Nature will be making herself felt in full force with rain, snow and severe storms set to impact large portions of the U.S.  Our inimitable and magnificent meteorologist, Allison Chinchar is here to break it all down.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST: As you pack your bags to travel this holiday week, you may also want to pack your patients as Mother Nature   could add delays both in the air and on the roadways. A low-pressure system developing over the central U.S. on Sunday will slide eastward in the   coming days, bringing the chance of rain, snow, high winds, and even possible tornadoes.  By Monday, the system focuses over the Midwest and the Southeast with nearly 20 million people under the threat for severe storms along the Gulf   Coast. Tuesday is when the real problems begin, especially if you have flights in or out of the main connecting airports in the eastern half of   the country, including New York, D.C., Charlotte, Atlanta, and Chicago.  As for the roadways, rain will lead to soggy conditions at times for Interstates 95, 85, 75, 40, and 70. There will also be a rain-snow mix for   the upper Midwest and interior New England.  (END VIDEOTAPE) For today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, let`s head to the White House South Lawn where President Joe Biden continued the annual American   presidential tradition of pardoning a turkey. To pardon means to forgive. And in this instance, the pardoning means that the president is sparing the   turkeys from being served alongside pumpkin pies, mashed potatoes, and casseroles. The pardoning of a turkey is one of the traditional White House   Thanksgiving festivities, marking an opportunity to give thanks as the holiday season begins.  After their pardoning, this year`s turkeys, Liberty and Belle, will be relocated to a farm to gobble and play for the rest of their days.  You all hold the turkeys to our heart. We`re going to miss you the rest of the week as we start our Thanksgiving break.  But last but not fist, it`s time for shout outs. We couldn`t make this show without you, so we`re sending some love to all of you, particularly to   Village Middle School in Colorado Springs, Colorado, a rocky mountain salute to all of you. And shout out to Sterling Heights High School and   Sterling Heights, Michigan, rise Up. From me and my team, we are so thankful for you. We wish you a safe, healthy, happy Thanksgiving.  I`m Coy Wire. I`ll be right back with you on Monday. It was a blessing to spend part of this week with you. END 

Date: 2023-11-27
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, sunshine. Hope you had an awesome Thanksgiving break. It is November 27th, Motivation Monday, and to honor   it, a quote from former South African President and Social Rights Activist Nelson Mandela, who once said, it always seems impossible until it is done.  We start today with something that once may have seemed impossible for many of those affected by the conflict in the Middle East, but it has happened.   And a breakthrough, truce deal Israel and Hamas agreed on a temporary pause in fighting and the first large scale release of hostages and prisoners who   were taken on October 7th.  It began on Friday when 24 hostages left Gaza and 39 Palestinian women and minors were released from Israeli prisons. Over the weekend, we continued   to see the emotional reunions of families who hadn`t seen each other for weeks.  Under a four-day truce deal, Israel and Hamas agreed on the release of a total of 50 hostages from Gaza and 150 Palestinian prisoners from Israeli   jails.  Now we`re going to zip on over to our next story of the day. In the U.S., Black Friday, the Friday after Thanksgiving is not what it used to be.   Years ago, Black Friday`s shopping crazes could sometimes lead to stampede, even injuries at stores, but now American consumers` habits around the   holiday shopping season have changed. Here`s Jenn Sullivan with the how and the why.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JENN SULLIVAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: In the end discount dash associated with Black Friday appears to be slowing.  JEFF GENNETT, CEO OF MACY`S: Clearly the month of November has changed really since the pandemic.  SULLIVAN: More shoppers are looking to score deals online as many consumers gear up for Cyber Monday.  CLAIRE TASSIN, MORNING CONSULT RETAIL & E-COMMERCE ANALYST: A pretty big shift from the Black Fridays. I remember about a decade ago where people   would line up early outside the stores now people are shopping in their pajamas.  SULLIVAN: It`s not just the convenience of shopping from home that has consumers scaling back on in-store shopping. Many retailers rolled out   their discounts much earlier this year to entice people to spend sooner.  HARLEY FINKELSTEI, PRESIDENT OF SHOPIFY: It actually started as early as early October and will go right until Christmas time.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: The Black Friday deals have already generated nearly $10 billion in online sales, according to Adobe Analytics. That`s 7.5% more than a year   ago. But Black Friday is only the penultimate attempt by retailers to ratchet up their sales.  Today, marks the final substantial day of holiday shopping deals Cyber Monday, designed for online shoppers. Did you know that Cyber Monday is   expected to generate a record $12 billion in sales, according to Adobe Analytics. Adobe says smartwatches, TVs, toys, and gaming products were the   best-selling categories this year. They also saw a notable increase in shoppers who went for buy now, pay later options, 47% more Americans use   this flexible payment method compared to last year. And while that may mean that they may end up paying a bit more because of interest, that works   better for some.  Now, pop quiz, hot shot. Ten-second trivia. What is the oldest operating ballpark in Major League Baseball?  Wrigley Field, Fenway Park, Dodger Stadium, or Yankee Stadium?  Opening in 1912 Fenway Park with its iconic left field wall opened two years before Wrigley. Although baseball season might be over in the U.S.,   one of the sport`s most iconic venues is still active in an unexpected way. As we celebrate our shared home, this call to Earth Day, CNN went to the   city of Boston to take a look at an urban farm unlike any other, sitting above the front offices of the Boston Red Sox.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Hours before the gates open on a Red Sox game day in late August at Fenway Park in Boston, a different team is hard at work.  CHRIS GRALLERT, PRESIDENT, GREEN CITY GROWERS: As these crops continue to come out, we`re plant in fall greens, we`re plant in lettuces.  WIRE: This is Fenway Farms, a 5,000 square foot garden area on a section of rooftop at the oldest active Major League Baseball Park in America.  GRALLERT: You know agriculture happens everywhere we`re just bringing it up off the ground and putting it up on a roof.  WIRE: Chris Grallert is a farmer and the president of Green City Growers, which operates this farm in some 200 other locations, including at 40   Boston Public Schools. But none are as visible and perhaps surprising as Fenway Farms.  GRALLERT: There`s a desire for people to have more locally grown fresh produce and interact with the people who are growing and distributing that   fresh produce. And I think when you have such high visibility like you do at a garden like this, people start to see that it`s possible and it can   really be the seed to start the new revolution towards food system transformation.  WIRE: The garden first opened in 2015, recycled milk crates formed the raised planters.  GRALLERT: These are fingerling type potatoes.  WIRE: Irrigated by a special system that delivers the precise amount needed to each plant.  The produce doesn`t have to travel far, just a short walk to Chef Ron Abel and his team. Operating the restaurants and concessions at Fenway.  GRALLERT: Produce delivery.  RON ABEL, SENIOR EXECUTIVE CHEF, FENWAY PARK: How you doing buddy?  GRALLERT: Good to see you as always.  ABEL: What do you have? GRALLERT: Beautiful onions, right off, look at the size of those.  ABEL: I have the best chef job in the city. Well, actually, maybe the country where I`ve got a rooftop garden that the food travels 100 feet,   gets washed, and gets served to everybody. And then this dish that Sean`s putting together is simple. Potatoes we harvested this morning, we`ve got   purple potatoes, we`ve got fingerling potatoes, heirloom carrots of different colors, and he just steamed them lightly, and they get seasoned   lightly.  WIRE: Green City Growers estimates Fenway Farms reduces the need for produce to purchase at the venue by 20%.  ABEL: Mostly we look at quantities and what we can go through and we also look at perishability. So there are challenges here. We can`t predict what   mother nature is going to give us.  WIRE: Anything left over, along with what`s harvested from a smaller designated area next to the main farm, is donated to a local food rescue   and distribution organization called Lovin` Spoonfuls.  GRALLERT: We can produce anywhere from four to six thousand pounds of fresh produce a year depending on what we`re growing. And so the range of   vegetables, asparagus, and zucchini.  WIRE: Making the iconic green of Fenway Park even greener.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, the great escape. Shelley Betz from Georgia and her family were busy decorating their home for Christmas   and when it was time to clean up all the mess, their robot vacuum was nowhere to be found until they found video evidence of the mysterious   getaway. Here`s Jeanne Moos with more.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Roomba is supposed to work for you.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Alexa, can you tell Roomba to clean under the kitchen table? MOOS: But who knew a Roomba could turn the tables by disappearing? SHELLEY BETZ, ROOMBA OWNER: We could not find him. And we looked under all the furniture. MOOS: Unbeknownst the Georgia resident, Shelley Betz, Roomba headed out the front door. They`d left open. BETZ: We were doing Christmas decorations in and out, and he escaped. MOOS: Two days later, Shelley`s husband found him under a bunch of leaves.  (On camera): How far did he actually get? BETZ: To be honest, he didn`t get very far. MOOS: Maybe 10 yards. It was after they found him that they looked back at their ring camera and witnessed his escape. BETZ: We were laughing hysterically. MOOS: So was the internet, the little Roomba that could, now that`s a clean getaway. Clean, but Roomba was a mess. He lost his padding and his brushes   though he still works. BETZ: He did his job. You know, he was doing what he`s he was born to do. MOOS: So she saluted the runaway Roomba`s escape by adding the George Michael classic. (MUSIC) MOOS: Without Roomba, the family was left in a vacuum. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Shout out time now. We`re showing love to Campbell Middle School in Smyrna, Georgia, rise up. And The Panthers at Thomas W. Pyle in Bethesda,   Maryland, keep shining, Ms. Hyman (ph) and Nora. We see you. Thanks to all of you who have subscribed and commented on our CNN 10 YouTube page for   your shout out request. Let`s make Monday great. And do this again tomorrow. Shall we? I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END   

Date: 2023-11-28
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up sunshine. So grateful to be with you today. I`m Coy Wire. Welcome to CNN 10. I lost my voice. Yep. I was outside   in the cold yesterday, not wearing my jacket. And here we are. So bear with me. Now, I`m pumped to see your submissions for tomorrow`s #YourWordWednesday. Follow me @coywire on Instagram, Snapchat, TikTok, put your unique   vocabulary word and definition in the comment section on my most recent post in the team, we`re going to choose a winner to work into tomorrow`s   show.  All right, we start today with a story about the war we haven`t talked about much recently. It`s been nearly two years since the war between   Russia and Ukraine began back in February of 2022. Just a couple of days ago, Russia launched its largest drone attack against Ukraine`s capital of   Kyiv since the full-scale invasion began. According to local officials, Ukraine`s air force says they intercepted 71 Iranian made drones in six   regions of Ukraine with the vast majority in the Kyiv region, 77 residential buildings were left without power for several hours before   supply was restored.  The next day, Russian officials reported they foiled more than 20 Ukrainian drone attacks over Russian territory, including the capital Moscow. Russian   air defenses also intercepted 53 Ukrainian drones over Ukrainian areas under Russian control. That`s according to the ministry of defense. There   is no quick end in sight for the war between Russia and Ukrainian. And both are preparing for the long haul.  President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is asking Western allies for continued support with more advanced arms, ammunition, and financing. Germany   recently admitted that European target goals for providing ammunition would fall short and the White House made it clear that the money U.S. has   available for Ukraine military aid is quickly running out. As Congress remains divided over funding additional support.  One of the problems that more funding could possibly help solve is a shortage of drones in Ukraine. CNN`s Anna Coren explains. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANNA COREN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): On the outskirts of Kyiv, a soldier puts on a pair of goggles.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Welcome to OpenTX. COREN: She`s part of a unit testing the latest batch of drones that have just arrived. Some work, some don`t. But this is the place to find out   before they`re delivered to Ukrainian troops on the Eastern and Southern fronts. Some of these drones are from civilians, produced in homes on   kitchen tables. They can be used for reconnaissance or assault missions. COREN (on camera): Drones have become a critical component of this war and are absolutely essential to every single Ukrainian unit on the front line.   And while civilians are working with private companies and the military to produce as many drones as possible, these soldiers say they are not nearly   enough. COREN (voice-over): As Russia`s full-scale invasion approaches a second year, there is now a critical shortage of drones. China`s decision to shut   down exports of parts, citing national security concerns, is part of the problem. However, the biggest issue is Russian electronic warfare. A Ukrainian official tells CNN, the military uses roughly 30,000 to 40,000 drones per month. They`re cheap and expendable. But soldiers on the ground   say they need at least 10 times more.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: We live in a world where artificial intelligence is becoming a bigger part of our lives, potentially writing messages, creating images and art.   And if it feels like AI is getting so good, that it`s difficult for you to figure out what`s real or not real sometimes, you`re not alone in that   search. Many people are looking for authenticity. And in 2023, authentic is Miriam Webster`s official word of the year. A synonym of real and actual   authentic has several meanings, including true to one`s own personality, spirit, or character.  The dictionary publisher says there have been a high volume of searches this year using the term driven by stories and conversations around AI,   celebrity, culture, identity, and social media.  Celebrities like Taylor Swift, Lainey Wilson, and Sam Smith made headlines this year when they spoke about seeking their authentic voice in authentic   self. Elon Musk also loves the term as he has previously said, people should be more authentic on social media.  I hope that you always have the strength to show your authentic self to the world. The moment we try to be like someone else, well, that`s when we lose   the magic that makes us special. There is no one in the world like you. You are more powerful than you know. Ten second trivia. Which of these countries does the Amazon Rainforest NOT cover? Peru, Bolivia, Paraguay or Brazil? Paraguay is your answer here. The Amazon Rainforest, the world`s largest tropical rainforest spans approximately 2.6 million square miles in south   America covering parts of eight countries, one territory, but not Paraguay. Today is called to earth day. And we`re celebrating our shared home shedding light on how our actions can impact distant natural spaces and   what we can do to protect and nurture them.  Next, we`re going to head to the Tropical Andes where biologists Ruthmerry Pillco Huarcaya is participating in the National Geographic and Rolex   Perpetual Planet Amazon Expedition, researching one of the ecosystem`s most iconic and endangered species. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ZAIN ASHER, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR (voice-over): High above the Amazon Rainforest crossing the borders of Ecuador, Columbia, and Peru is the   Andean Cloud Forest. It might sound like something plucked from a fairytale, but it is very much real. And it`s one of the most biodiverse   ecosystems on the planet. RUTHMERRY PILLCO HUARCAYA, COORDINATOR, ANDEAN BEAR PROJECT: The Cloud Forest has its name because most of the time it`s covered by cloud. Here we   have the trees with an array of orchids, mosses and many other epiphytes that are recovering the trees and they act like sponge. They capture the   moisture and is helping to take back the water into the system. So, playing a key role in this way.  ASHER: Alongside the thousands of species of red plants and 00:06:45 stone Budds lives one of south America`s most iconic mammals. PILLCO HUARCAYA: The Andean Bear is the only bear we have here in South America. They are medium-sized bears in comparison to their cousin, the   North American Bears. The main characteristic is the facial markings. So many of them have white facial markings that look like spectacles. That`s   why also they are called Spectacled Bears. So these facial markings are unique for each individual. It`s how we can identify different individuals. ASHER: The Andean Bear is classified as vulnerable by the IUCN with fewer than 10,000 remaining. Ruthmerry has spent the past two years studying the   remaining population in the Cloud Forest in order to develop a conservation strategy for the species. Using camera traps and tracking collars, the   Andean Bear Project is accumulating a database of the creatures habits and the role they play in the ecosystem. MARK THOMAS, RESEARCHER & DATA ANALYST, ANDEAN BEAR PROJECT: We basically get a deep dive into the life of an Andean Bear. We basically are able to   see where it spends most of its time. So is it in like Puna grasslands, upper mountain forest. We can also see how it interacts, for example, with   the roads that we have that go on here.  The communities rely on these kind of cloud forests or habitats as much as the bears do. For us, understanding all of this information, it gives us   the opportunity to be able to work on the, where do we need to protect? What do we need to protect. PILLCO HUARCAYA: For conservation to have success, we need to work with people and in this case we need to work with local community are that are   the neighbors of Manu National Part, of this forest. It`s like a chain of information. Our forest is water, and water is life. Not only for plants or   animals but also for us humans. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting 10 out of 10 is lit. Look at this delightful sight shining at the world`s largest Christmas light maze. The enchant   experience is a winter wonderland in Kansas City, Kansas. It took more than a month to build it. And it`s an immersive experience. The website says, a   mischievous little elf named Eddie misplaced eight toys meant for kids. And the goal is to find them before Santa`s big night. All while you get your   glow on amid more than 4 million lights.  That looks amazing. If you love Christmas time, that place will make you love it a lot more.  Now it`s shout out time and we are showing lots of love to Grace Webb High School in Hartford, Connecticut. Thank you for spending part of your day   with us. And this shout out goes to Redmond High School in Redmond, Oregon. Go Panthers, keep shining great sunshine. And I look forward to all of Your   Word Wednesday submissions. I`m Coy Wire. I`ll see you right back here tomorrow. END 

Date: 2023-11-29
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. And hello, Wednesday. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. We got a big show today. Not a lot of time to do   it. So let`s get to it.  We start with the news that might be especially relevant. If you use social media apps like Instagram and Facebook to catch you up to speed, a federal   lawsuit was filed last month against Meta, the social media giant that owns those apps. It accuses the company of harming minors and contributing to a   mental health crisis in the U.S.  And now a newly unsealed court document reveals some of the details of that lawsuit. It claims Meta knowingly refused to shut down accounts of users   under the age of 13 and accuses the company of collecting children`s personal information without their parents` consent. The unsealed complaint   also alleges Meta knew its algorithm could steer children toward harmful content.  Instagram`s term of use does prohibit users under the age of 13, but attorney generals from 33 states argue Meta disabled only a fraction of the   accounts reported to the company for violating this rule since 2019. Meta responded to the unsealed complaint by telling CNN, "We want teens to have safe, age-appropriate experiences online, and we have over 30 tools to   support them and their parents." Now, the company says they spent a decade working on these issues and that they have hired people who have dedicated their careers to keeping young   people safe and supported online, adding, "The complaint mischaracterizes our work using selective quotes and cherry-picked documents."  So what do you think, do you think these lawsuits might help protect younger social media users? And what would your proposed solution be to   make these platforms safe for all to use?  Our next story is about finding the light at the end of the tunnel, and I mean, literally. Forty-one workers were successfully rescued Tuesday after   spending 17 days trapped inside a collapsed tunnel under the Himalayas. The workers were able to survive after a 173-foot pipe was inserted through the   debris to provide them with food, water, and oxygen. It took weeks to drill an escape route through the mountain with rescue workers digging the last   two meters by hand to reach the trapped people.  Eventually, though, the group emerged safely to the relief of families gathered around the tunnel exit. Officials say the workers appear to be in   good health despite ordeal. What an impressive example of patients and resilience.  All right. Another big story this week on the artificial intelligence front. Remember yesterday, we mentioned that the word of the year for 2023   is "authentic." Well, one company is being accused of being not authentic. Sports Illustrated deleted several articles from its website after a report   by futurism found were written under fake author names that used profile images generated by AI. Confused about how something like this could happen   at this longtime magazine. Well, a spokesperson for the Arena Group, which operates Sports Illustrated claims the now deleted product reviews were   created by a third-party company called AdVon Commerce. The spokesperson says they were assured that all the articles in question were written by humans using pseudonyms. Even so the group says it has   ended their partnership with AdVon and are conducting an internal investigation into what happened. AdVon has not responded to CNN`s request   for comment.  Now pop quiz, hot shot. Ten second trivia.  What animal has the U.S. Centers for Disease and Control Prevention dubbed the world`s deadliest? Poison dart frog, Komodo dragon, Black widow spider, or mosquitoes? Mosquitoes are the world`s deadliest animal because they spread diseases like Malaria and West Nile virus causing hundreds of thousands of deaths   worldwide each year.  Call to Earth Day 2023 is focusing on how our actions, particularly in cities can affect wild and remote regions. Today, we had to Hawaii where   the race is on to save a native forest bird from a formidable foe that has decimated their population.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ZAIN ASHER, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR:  High up on a plateau in the middle of the Hawaiian island of Kauai, a team of researchers carefully transport,   some extremely precious cargo. (OFF MIC) ASHER:  They`ve spent three days in this remote and rain-soaked expanse of jungle, looking for something very specific and very small. The egg of one   of the world`s most critically endangered species, a Hawaiian honeycreeper known as the `Akikiki, found nowhere else on earth but here.  JUSTIN HITE, FIELD SUPERVISOR, KAUA`I FOREST BIRD RECOVERY PROJECT:  You`re going to be just trying to collect them and bring them in to a captive   block. Just because the assumption is that all of these birds are about to go extinct. ASHER:  According to the Hawaiian Department of Land and Natural Resources, there are only five of the species left in the wild.  HANNAH BAILEY, WILDLIFE CARE MANAGER, KEAUHOU BIRD CONSERVATION CENTER, SAN DIEGO ZOO WILDLIFE ALLIANCE:  The current state of `Akikiki is pretty bad   right now. We do have about 50 `Akikiki in human care at our two centers in Hawaii. And we do know that this past breeding season, there were no   surviving chicks in the wild. ASHER:  Hannah Bailey manages the Keauhou Bird Conservation Center on the island of Hawaii. The center serves as a Noah`s Ark of sorts for the   `Akikiki. BAILEY:  Our mission is to provide safe haven populations of the species that are in peril so that when the environment is right for them to survive   long-term, we`ll be able to re-release them. ASHER:  Hannah says the current state of all of Hawaii`s forest birds is dire due in part to the usual culprits like habitat loss, but a newer and   more deadly manners has emerged. BAILEY:  The biggest threat right now to Hawaii`s endangered birds is mosquitoes. Because they carry avian malaria, which the birds have no   resistance to. ASHER:  According to the American Bird Conservancy, climate change has enabled non-native mosquitoes to find their way to Kauai`s highest   elevations. The `Akikiki`s last refuge in the wild. BAILEY:  This is a portable brooder box that we can also use to incubate eggs. And it helps us transfer eggs from one location to another that have   been incubated safely so that they will continue to grow and develop. ASHER:  We need to have landscape level solutions to the mosquito problems.  BAILEY:  And in doing this, the state and many other partners have worked with people that have studied malaria around the world. And so they`re   researching different solutions in malaria control, specifically ones that impact the mosquitoes without impacting the remainder of the environment. ASHER:  In the meantime, keeping the birds in centers like this one where enclosures are designed to mimic their natural habitat, but to protect it   from mosquitoes, and where human interaction is strictly limited to discourage imprinting, a process where animals lose their natural behavior.   These may very well be an entire species last chance at survival. BAILEY:  So KBCC along with San Diego Zoo Wildlife Alliance has been working really hard, especially this last spring in saving the remaining   `Akikiki in the wild. So our next step for these populations is continuing to grow the populations so that they have strong genetic diversity and a   strong population to go back to their native habitat. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 NBA superstar, LeBron James becoming the NBA`s all-time leader in minutes played surpassing the 66,300-  minute mark set by the legendary Kareem Abdul-Jabbar.  You`d think that playing all those minutes at that level would be innovating. But LeBron who turns 39 next month playing in his 21st NBA   season is still going strong. So what`s the secret. LeBron has said that one thing is sleep. He gets at least eight hours each night, sometimes 10.   And if he doesn`t he`ll nap for a couple of hours. So naps are good. Just try not to nap in class.  All right, superstars, big congrats to James at Digital Media Arts and Communications at Monroe One in Fairport, New York who submitted today`s   #YourWordWednesday winner, enervate, a verb meaning to cause someone to feel drained of energy or vitality or weaken. Awesome job.  All right, thanks for being with us today. Shout out time now. Rachel Carson Middle School in Fairfax County, Virginia, rise up Panthers. Keep on   shining. And special shout out to our international audience Montcalm Secondary School in the City of London and the Ontario Province of Canada,   you rock. Go on Cougars. Thanks for watching us today and thanks for subscribing to our CNN 10 YouTube channel and for all your lovely comments. I`m Coy Wire and we are   CNN 10. END     

Date: 2023-11-30
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up sunshine. It`s time to shine this Thursday, November 30th. It`s a random thought Thursday. So think about   this, nothing is on fire. Fire is on things and fire trucks are really water trucks. Happy Friday Eve. I`m Coy Wire. Welcome to CNN 10, where I   tell you the what, letting you decide what to think.  We start today with news out of China, where hospitals in Beijing and the Northern part of the country are reporting a surge in respiratory illnesses   in children. But Chinese officials are telling the World Health Organization, there`s no need to worry saying it`s just typical seasonal   infections causing the spike. It`s not any new or unknown disease carrying pathogen.  During this rise in respiratory illnesses, the WHO is advising people in China to do what they can do to reduce the spread of infectious disease by   staying at home when they`re sick, wearing a mask when it`s appropriate and using good hand hygiene. The WHO is not recommending that travelers change   their plans or take any particular precautions when visiting China other than to avoid travel if they`re sick. Here`s our Ivan Watson with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Long lines of patients crowded Chinese hospitals, a warning from the World Health   Organization about an upsurge of respiratory illnesses among children in Northern China, and administrators from several pediatric hospitals in and   around the Chinese capital saying the spike in patients exceeded their capacity.  (On camera):  Should people be worried? JOHN NICHOLLS, CLINICAL PROFESSOR OF PATHOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF HONG KONG:  I don`t think they should be too worried because there are -- we have to look   at a number of factors. So the first is that, is winter and it`s cold. And wherever you have this, you`re going to be getting an increase in   respiratory infections. WATSON:  The WHO says, according to Chinese government data, there`s been an increase of RSV, adenovirus and influenza since October and an uptick of   mycoplasma pneumonia since May, but not a novel pathogen like COVID-19. Chinese health officials reported the increases to the WHO but are   downplaying the severity of this strain of pneumonia, which the WHO says, can be treated with antibiotics. JIN DONGYAN, PROFESSOR OF VIROLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF HONG KONG:  So far there is just a zero evidence that there is a new virus being circulating in   Beijing or elsewhere. WATSON:  The global COVID-19 pandemic first appeared to originate in the Chinese city of Wuhan in late 2019. Critics accused the Chinese government   at the time of not being transparent about what later became a global health crisis. Long after the rest of the world moved on from social   distancing, Beijing maintained strict COVID restrictions. Epidemiologists say the surge in illness now is China playing catch up to other countries. NICHOLLS:  What we are seeing is with what`s actually even seen in many other countries before, is that after COVID is that where kids get   together, there will be an increase in respiratory viruses. WATSON:  But the increase is putting real pressure on some Chinese hospitals where doctors say, patients have to wait hours to get an   appointment. GUO LINGYUN, DOCTOR, BEIJING CHILDREN`S HOSPITAL (through translator):  Every night, we have doctors from different departments working over time,   and each doctor will take at least 30 online consultation sessions per night. WATSON:  Due to China`s relatively underdeveloped primary care system, hospital emergency rooms often serve as the first point of contact for   patients with even mild illness. So during flu season in China scenes like this aren`t unusual, even when they`re sick and receiving an IV drip,   children are expected to do their homework. Health officials are urging parents not to rush their kids to children`s hospitals in China`s first   winter since COVID. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  More health-related news now, this time from New Zealand, which was on track to be the first country in the world to prevent an entire next   generation from smoking the anti-smoking law, which was scheduled to take effect seven months from now, banned sales of tobacco to anyone born after   2008. But New Zealand`s new government called it off. Here`s our McKenna Ewen with the why. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MCKENNA EWEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  New Zealand was on track to have the world`s leading smoking ban, but the nation`s new government plans   to scrap it. NICOLA WILLIS, FINANCE MINISTER, NEW ZEALAND:  Both New Zealand First, and the ACT Party were insistent that they wanted those regulations reversed.   And we`ve agreed to that. EWEN:  Smoking is the leading cause of preventable deaths in New Zealand. In 2022, the previous government passed legislation that would make the   country first in the world to outlaw smoking for the next generation, barring sales to anyone born after 2008. The policy was praised by public   health officials around the world. And months later, the United Kingdom announced a similar plan. KING CHARLES:  My government will introduce legislation to create a smoke- free generation. EWEN:  That same month, New Zealand held elections that led to a new, more conservative coalition government. So why does the new government say it`s   reversing course? Well, money, a leader in the ACT Party, one of the coalition parties that make up the new government said that New Zealand   brings in about 1.8 billion in tax revenue from tobacco every year. DAVID SEY, ACT LEADER, NEW ZEALAND:  The government can continue to tax it. And I think that`s a more realistic solution than what the previous   government was headed toward. EWEN:  Others in the government, including the Prime Minister, Christopher Luxon also suggests that reversing the ban prevents a black market for   tobacco from forming. Health model suggests that the ban could have saved up to 5,000 lives each year. Public health officials aren`t happy with the   change.  BEN YOUDAN, DIRECTOR, NZ ACTION FOR SMOKEFREE 2025:  That was a world leading policy that was going to save thousands and thousands of lives. So   it feels a tremendous cost to be in power to give up that bill, because it`s just going to prolong the death and the disease it`s been caused by   smoke tobacco. EWEN:  The ban was set to go into effect in July, 2024. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia.  What helps create the atmospheric phenomenon, Aurora Borealis, also known as the Northern Lights? The moon, the tides, the seasons, or the sun? If you said the sun, put your hands up. Aurora Borealis is an atmospheric phenomenon caused by particles emitted in solar storms creating enchanting   waves of colored light.  All right, we want you to take a look at something that looks a lot like the Northern Lights, but it`s actually something unique. Meet Steve, a rare   spectacle that hovers over the horizon in the Northern hemisphere. It`s a bit different from the more famous auroras we`re familiar with, those   shine, blue, green, and red when charged particles from the sun interact with our atmosphere. But all Steve is caused by an atmospheric river of   particles heating up and it shows up at lower latitudes as streaks of purple with distinct green bands.  All right. So why do they call it Steve? Well, members of the Alberta, Aurora chasers in Canada borrowed the name from DreamWorks 2006 animated   movie "Over the Hedge" when the characters encountered a surprise, they named it Steve to make the discovery less scary.  All right, we often talk about on this show. How, if you want to make something happen in this world, you have to see it up here in your mind`s   eye before you can see it out there in the world. Well, today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is about a woman named Brooke Hart Jones, who took a   dream and made it a reality. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  As a little girl, Brooke Hart Jones loved dolls. As a young lady, she attended an HBCU, and as a grown woman, three years ago,   she decided to get an old classmate a gift. BROOKE HART JONES:  I was looking for an HBCU doll to give someone during the pandemic and couldn`t find it. And I was shocked and I`m like, surely   these exist. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  But dolls representing students at historically black colleges and universities did not exist. So the Dallas toy buyer furloughed   by her company during COVID decided to make some herself. HART JONES:  And so that`s how it came about. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Brooke handmade them, her husband packaged them and they sent them to the few folks who bought them. Now, they are sold   everywhere. Target, Walmart, Sam`s Club, Amazon, young black girls, all over the country are buying and loving them. The 11 HBCU dolls have   different skin tones and hair textures.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  What is it for daddy? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  But they also have different interests, Autumn is a majorette and business major. Nicole is homecoming queen and pre-med. HART JONES:  They all have positions of leadership and unique backgrounds. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Notice the dolls Brooke had as a little girl, they did not look like her. The ones she`s making now, not only look like the   girls who get them. HART JONES:  It is the opportunity to plant the seed of higher learning, teach about HBCUs. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  But also show them what they can achieve. HART JONES:  You`re going to a HBCU too?  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Yeah. HART JONES:  They see themselves. They see what they can be, what they can achieve, what they can become.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  That was awesome, to all my goal getters out there, remember complacency is the constant enemy. NBA legend, Kobe Bryant, once said the   most important thing is to try and inspire people so that they can be great in whatever they want to do.  Shout out time now to the superstars at Starr-Iva Middle School in the town of Starr, South Carolina, put the er in tigers and dominate this day.  And shout out to the mountain lions at Mettawee Community School in West Pawlet, Vermont, we`d be lying if say, we don`t have mad love for y`all.   Much love and many blessings to all of you. Thank you for your energy, for spending part of your day with us. I`m Coy. I`ll see you tomorrow. Peace   out. END 

Date: 2023-12-01
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up lovely people. It`s December 1st and my favorite day of the week Friyay. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, only 31 days   left in the year 2023. Let`s finish this week, finish this year strong.  First up news from the world`s climate summit happening in Dubai in the United Arab Emirates. It`s called COP28. The letters stand for Conference   of the Parties, and the numbers stand for the 28th year that this summit is taking place. It`s organized by the United Nations for the countries that   are members of the U.N. framework convention on climate change. Let`s go to Faiz Jamil now for more about COP`s history and what it hopes to   accomplish. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) FAIZ JAMIL, CNN SENIOR PRODUCER:  COP stands for Conference of the Parties. The gatherings are intense technical negotiations brokered by the U.N.   Countries are meant to work together to coordinate a global effort to reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions, but progress at success of COP summits   has been limited. The first climate COP summit took place in Berlin in 1995 and representatives from more than 170 states or territories attended.   Two years later at COP3 in Japan countries agreed to the Kyoto Protocol in which 37 industrialized states or territories were legally bound to start   reducing their emissions. But the biggest polluter at the time, the United States refused to ratify the agreement because it didn`t oblige developing   nations like China to cut emissions. And without the United States and China on board, the Kyoto Protocol began to crumble.  Then at COP21 in Paris, there was a breakthrough. The Paris Agreement was adopted by more than 190 parties, including the U.S. and China its ambition   was to limit global warming to well below two, but preferably 1.5-degree Celsius above pre industrialized levels. Since then progress has been slow   and pledges by governments across the world haven`t gone far enough, even as deadly extreme weather has gotten more intense and cost of in action has   skyrocketed. At COP26 in Glasgow country signed an agreement that for the first time acknowledged the role of fossil fuels in the climate crisis. But the   conference also had its shortcomings. India successfully demanded that the final agreement would commit countries to phase down rather than phase out   planet heating coal. COP27 in Egypt saw countries agreeing to set up a loss and damage fund to help vulnerable nations hit by climate disasters. But while the intent to   limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius was reaffirmed progress so far has fallen far short, where scientists save needs to be. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Now at this year`s summit already global delegates have agreed to establish a damage fund for those nations hit hardest by the climate   crisis. The United Arab Emirates and Germany already pledged 100 million to this fund. The U.K. promised 60 million pounds. The U.S. committed 17.5   million and Japan contributed 10 million. Since last year summit in Egypt, more than 80 countries have voiced support for language around phasing out fossil fuels. However, many wish to   continue using fossil fuels as long as the climate pollution is captured before it enters the atmosphere. Moving on now to news back in the United States, the environmental protection agency proposed to remove lead pipes from the us water system.   Why? Lead is an extremely toxic heavy metal and studies have linked exposure to it to significant health and developmental problems, especially   for kids.  New lead pipes have been banned in the U.S. since the 1980s, but there are still about 9 million lead service lines in the country according   to the EPA. And Illinois and Rhode Island are the states with the highest proportions of service lines due for replacement.  The EPA proposal says lead service lines must be replaced within 10 years. The project will require billions of dollars, but the agency analysis   suggests that the benefits would be 4 to 10 times greater. Ten second trivia. What sport helped ease mounting tensions between China and the U.S. during the height of the cold war? Ping Pong, Pickle ball, Tennis, or Badminton? Chinese leader Mao Zedong invited the U.S. table tennis team to China in 1971. Those matches helped break the ice ahead of the Secretary of State   Henry Kissinger`s groundbreaking secret trip to China months later.  One of the most influential and controversial foreign policy figures in American history, Henry Kissinger has died. The former U.S. Secretary of   State and National Security Advisor was 100 years old. CNN`s Richard Roth has a look back at the defining moments of Kissinger`s career. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I know all of you will want to hear from the new Secretary of State. RICHARD ROTH, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Henry Kissinger never really needed an introduction on the world stage again, Kissinger, the most famous statesman   of the last half of the 20th Century celebrated and controversial. As Richard Nixon`s National Security Advisor and Secretary of State, the diplomat wielded, enormous power and influence, so trusted that it was   Kissinger who went to China on a secret mission to explore a historic opening of U.S. relations with communist China. HENRY KISSINGER, FORMER SECRETARY OF STATE:  Whoever went would be alone in Beijing with no communication. And therefore, if he didn`t know Nixon`s   mind, he might do foolish things. ROTH:  Vietnam casualties mounted as the Vietnamese gained territory Nixon and an undiplomatic Kissinger thought more bombing of the north would help.   Kissinger approved secret bombings of north Vietnamese units in Cambodia without congressional approval. He would say sometimes statesmen have to   choose among evils moral compromises in messy conflicts, Kissinger, and his Vietnamese counterpart lay duck toe were awarded the Nobel peace prize for   their role in negotiating a cease fire. KISSINGER:  I have to say, I have never dealt with a group of people as treacherous as the north Vietnamese leadership. ROTH:  Kissinger insisted trouble on the home front hurt chances to succeed in Vietnam. KISSINGER:  We lost the war because we were divided. And also because we were too uncertain about what we wanted. ROTH:  Kissinger`s support for a coup in Chile and pro U.S. military strong men in other parts of the world, drew criticism. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Arrest Henry Kissinger for crime. ROTH:  Kissinger`s legacy would be contested decades later when he testified in Congress at the age of 91. In the Middle East, Kissinger   performed what came to be known as shuttle diplomacy, to separate Israeli and Arab forces, setting the stage for future peace accords. When Nixon resigned, as President, Kissinger stayed on as Gerald Ford`s Secretary of State. His opinion still widely sought after, by governments   and businesses, after leaving public office. KISSINGER:  You want to leave your country better off than you found it. And there`s nothing in private life you can do that`s as interesting and as   fulfilling. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 comes from Lowell, Massachusetts, where a middle school opened its own barber shop. Any   student at Sullivan Middle School can receive a free haircut from a professional barber during school on Mondays by booking an appointment   online. The salon named Husky Kutz after the school`s mascot aims to break down barriers like finances and maybe transportation that could keep kids   from access to looking and feeling their best.  If any of y`all ever need a fresh cut, come holla at your boy, I`ll take care of it for you. Have you looking like Mr. Clean? All right, superstars,   I have had an awesome week sharing and learning with you. Thank you for what I believe is your greatest superpower. Your curiosity, being open and   curious about news happening near and far, not content to maintain the status quo. That`s what it`s all about.  Multi-millionaire and advisor to U.S. President`s Bernard Baruch once said, "Millions saw the apple fall, but Newton asked why." Now, shout out time, Mrs. Becker`s class at Nautilus Middle School in Miami Beach, Florida. Muchas gracias for all the lovely letters. I can`t tell you   how much this means to me. My heart completely melted in a puddle all over the floor.  All right, now Rockets racking it out at Neenah Middle School in Neenah, Wisconsin, rise up. Go out and make someone smile today y`all. Remember you   are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END 

Date: 2023-12-04
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up superstar. Welcome to Monday, December 4th. We`re going to make this the best day, because it`s the next day.   There`s no such thing as remaining the same in life. We`re either getting a little better each day or a little worse. So let`s try to make this one   better. Shall we?  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we start by paying homage to a trailblazer. The first woman to sit on the us Supreme Court, Sandra Day   O`Connor. She passed away on December 1st at the age of 93, leaving behind a remarkable legacy. Ms. O`Connor graduated from Stanford Law School, but   was turned down by law firms in large part because she was a woman. So she and her husband started their own law firm and O`Connor kept working. She   would go on to become the first female majority leader in the Arizona State Senate, a judge of the Maricopa County Superior Court and the Arizona   County Court of Appeals.  Then in 1981, President Ronald Reagan nominated O`Connor to the Supreme Court. Current Chief Justice, John Roberts remembered O`Connor as a   fiercely independent defender of the rule of law. President Joe Biden hailed her as an American icon.  As the first female Supreme Court Justice, O`Connor inspired generations of female lawyers and paved the way for the five women who have served on the   high court since she was first nominated. Let`s go to Jessica Schneider to learn more about Sandra Day O`Connor`s life and legacy. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JESSICA SCHNEIDER, CNN JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Sandra Day O`Connor grew up a cowgirl from Arizona, 25 miles from the nearest town. FORMER JUSTICE SANDRA DAY O`CONNOR, U.S. SUPREME COURT: I tend to be a bit of a pragmatist probably, because we had to solve all our own problems out   on the ranch. If the truck broke down, we had to fix it. If some animal needed medical attention, we had to provide it. There wasn`t much we didn`t   have to do. SCHNEIDER: She had the toughness ranch life can breed. MARCI HAMILTON, FORMER O`CONNOR LAW CLERK: She was incredibly fearless about life and part of that was because her early life was very hard. Her   parents died, her grandmother died, she was shuttled back and forth between the ranch and relatives in Texas to go to school and she just became very   self-sufficient. SCHNEIDER: O`Connor went to Stanford in the same law class as future Chief Justice William Rehnquist. They dated for a time and he even proposed. She   turned him down, but they stayed lifelong friends. Upon graduation, no law firm would hire O`Connor, so she eventually helped start her own, later   becoming a powerful state lawmaker, then judge. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: President Reagan today settled the question of when he would nominate a woman to the nation`s highest court. RONALD REAGAN, FMR. FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: She is truly a person for all seasons, possessing those unique qualities of temperament, fairness,   intellectual capacity, and devotion to the public good. SCHNEIDER: In 1981, President Ronald Reagan nominated her to be the first woman on the Supreme Court. The Senate confirmed O`Connor unanimously, 99-  0. Over time, O`Connor became known as a moderate conservative on the court and often the swing vote on hot button social issues, a reference she   didn`t like. O`CONNOR: We have an equal voice and I`m no more powerful than anyone else on this court. That`s for sure. SCHNEIDER: Some criticized her as a fence sitter, waiting to see which way the wind would blow. HAMILTON: Those would be the people who have never met her. Anybody who`s met her knows that she makes up her own mind, and she`s not at all   concerned about where anybody else is on the spectrum. SCHNEIDER: In 2006, she stepped down from the court to care for her husband, John, who had Alzheimer`s disease. She became a passionate   advocate for Alzheimer`s research. O`CONNOR: It does take a staggering toll on the families and the caregivers. I can certainly attest to that. SCHNEIDER: In 2018, O`Connor revealed she too had been diagnosed with dementia and withdrew from public life. The retired justice was grateful, she wrote, for her countless blessings and experiences, including helping to break the glass ceiling. O`CONNOR: It wasn`t too many years before I was born that women in this country got the right to vote, for heaven`s sakes. And in my lifetime, I   have seen unbelievable changes in the opportunities for women. I think it`s important that women are well represented, that it is not an all-male   governance as it once was. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: The 28th meeting of the conference of the parties, the annual international climate summit hosted by the United Nations is underway in   Dubai and at COP28 this year, tens of thousands of world leaders, climate advocates and industry representatives are discussing how countries should   adapt to a rapidly changing planet. And for the first time ever, 123 countries have signed on to a pledge that formally acknowledges a link   between climate change and health. That`s according to the COP28 President. Let`s go to David McKenzie who`s in Dubai for more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: The focus of these critical climate talks in Dubai have shifted to the health impact of the   climate crisis. Scientists say more than 7 million people a year die from pollution, from mostly fossil fuel emissions and plants. But they`re also   the direct climate change impacts like searing heat waves and the expansion of pathogens like malaria because of a warming planet. The World Health   Organization says that health needs to become a focus. DR. DIARMID CAMPBELL-LENDRUM, HEAD OF WHO CLIMATE CHANGE UNIT: So they think they`ve been negotiating about carbon emissions. The message we`re   bringing is that you`re actually negotiating about human lives and how many human lives you can save both by preventing the health risks of climate   change, but also saving an awful lot of lives by climate action through clean energy. MCKENZIE: It`s unclear if the delegates here will come up with a concrete plan to phase out fossil fuel use in the future, that say health experts   would do a great deal towards helping the health impacts of the climate crisis. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Two filmmakers were producing a documentary about the ecological damage caused by invasive muscles in the great lakes, when they   came across something much larger. They discovered what`s believed to be the shipwreck of the Africa, a cargo ship that hadn`t been seen in nearly   130 years. In 1895, the steamship was carrying coal from Ohio to Ontario, Canada when it disappeared during a Lake Huron snowstorm. None of the 11   crew members survived. An underwater drone captured footage of the ship break about 280 feet below the surface of the lake. And notice the ship was   covered with muscles. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Ten second trivia.  We live in a galaxy called the Milky Way. What`s it shaped like? A globe, a spiral, a cloud, a candy bar? If you said, spiral, put your hands up. If you could look down on the Milky Way galaxy, it would look like a spinning pinwheel type spiral.  Within our solar system, we have eight planets, but did you know that within our Milky Way galaxy, there are more than 5,000 known planets. And   now astronomers have caught a glimpse of a young star, 160,000 light years away outside of our Milky Way galaxy that could be forming a new planet.  Scientists believe that planets are formed when small grains of dust, which are circling and swirling around a star collide and fused together and   grow, kind of like a rolling snowball. Eventually a planet can be formed. This massive star called HH 1177 is in a galaxy called Large Magellanic   Cloud. And the star is surrounded by a rotating ring where it`s looking like the conditions could be just right. This is the first-time scientists   have witnessed a planet potentially being formed outside of our celestial neighborhood. For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 ice, ice baby, a kayaker took a frigid trip down a 65-foot-tall waterfall in the Arctic Circle, setting a   new world record, check it out. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is the biggest ever recorded drop of a glacial waterfall, according to Reuters. Catalan adventurer, Aniol Serrasolses,   descended the 20-meter ice waterfall in Svalbard archipelago in Norway. The 32-year-old and his crew had to climb up the ice cap using a ladder and   then walk nearly seven miles across the ice to reach the waterfall. Serrasolses said that navigating the rapids felt like kayaking in another   planet. ANIOL SERRASOLSES, CATALAN ADVENTURER: Woo, woo, woo. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: All right, that`s all for me. I`ll see you tomorrow. I hope y`all have an ice day, just kidding. You didn`t think I`d give you the cold   shoulder, did you? Shout out time, go tigers, Troy High School in Troy, New York, rise up. Remember let`s make this the best day because it`s the next day. I`m Coy.   This is CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-12-05
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, sunshine. Terrific Tuesday to you. Welcome to the show. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news. And I`m   the real Coy, not some AI version. We start today with news on how the Biden administration ahead of the 2024 election season is looking to put up   guardrails on AI. I guess that could stand for artificial imposters, fabricated images or fake videos known as Deepfakes. While the technology   behind AI generated material, whether it be images, videos, writing, or music can offer great promise. It`s been under a tight microscope lately.   There are concerns that this advanced technology is going to be used to produce fake news and spread misinformation. And we don`t need any of that   heading into a very important presidential election, which is now less than a year away.  President Biden`s campaign has put together a special task force, which is composed of the campaign`s top lawyers to quickly react to any possible   scenarios that may involve political misinformation. This can range from false AI generated images, videos, and audio that could possibly persuade   and disrupt the voting process.  Now, existing election laws in this country, prohibit campaigns from "fraudulently misrepresenting other candidates or political parties" but   whether this prohibition now includes AI generated content is an open question and can possibly be a problem for candidates. Our Donie O`Sullivan   breaks it all down. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DONIE O`SULLIVAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The internet is currently a wash with AI generated audio, video, text, even music that`s been created using   artificial intelligence. Now, there are concerns how this technology that can make really convincing fakes, might be used in next year`s U.S.   presidential election to make it appear or make it sound like a candidate or a surrogate for our campaign has said something damaging, something   incriminating, something that could potentially upend an entire presidential campaign.  Now, in the U.S. law, in the U.S. currently, there is no law against Deepfakes being used in this kind of way. So what the Biden campaign is   doing, is planning for next year, is trying to figure out legal mechanisms whereby they can get videos, audio that might be damaging to the campaign   that might emerge that are fraudulent, that are fake, that are disinformation, how they can go about trying to get that information taken   down off the internet.  Now, they`re looking at laws bode about in the U.S., novel uses of some old laws and -- but also looking to Europe where there are far stricter   internet laws. So if content is created or maybe posted on a platform that is hosted in Europe, they plan on invoking European law to try and get that   content taken down.  But look, it`s one of these things that is very, very difficult as soon, as the genie is out in the bottle, as it were on the internet, it is very hard   to put it back in. But certainly lots of concerns as we go into the 2024 presidential election, just on how this new rapidly developing technology   could be used for nefarious purposes. Back to you. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia. How many water bottles are sold every minute around the world?  A thousand, 10,000, 100,000 or 1 million? If you guess 1 million, you are correct. And that number`s expected to nearly double by the year 2030, the U.N. says this is helping to perpetuate   a worldwide plastic pollution crisis.  The U.N. says that more than 90% of single use plastic is produced from fossil fuels or unrecycled material. Well, in South Africa, these urban   surfers rise before dawn, ravaging through bins and household waste for recyclable materials and are actually helping the African country become   one of the best recycling nations on earth. Our David McKenzie reports on how their work has an important environmental impact for our climate. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Tlamoke Mokoka and his cart are on the move. His job goes by many names here. Reclaimer. Hustler. Even   Urban Surfer. It`s dangerous work in a dangerous city. There are thousands like Mokoka fanning out well before dawn. After an hour on the road, he`s in a neighborhood south of the city. TLAMOKE MOKOKA, RECYCLING RECLAIMER: I`m looking for the plastics. MCKENZIE (voice-over): I`m looking for plastics, cardboard boxes, metals, and cans, he says. MOKOKA: Metals. MCKENZIE: And it`s a dirty job, do you mind? MOKOKA: I don`t mind.  MCKENZIE (voice-over): What they discard, he recycles, earning about $150 a month. It`s steadier than his old construction job, and Mokoka likes being   his own boss. There aren`t any jobs here, he says, so we`ve made our own work, making their own work with a scale and impact that`s hard to overstate. Just look at this sorting zone near Joburg where thousands live. It`s informal but hardly simple. Everything is carefully separated. Everything   has value. (On camera): Towards the top of the pecking order are cans. Now, a bag of these will get reclaimers almost 40 U.S. dollars. As they say, one man`s   trash is another man`s treasure. (Voice-over): I`m always surprised how rich people throw away so much rubbish, says Tlakatla Khang, but I`m happy they do. This collection took them weeks. I don`t know much about climate change, he says. Of course I`m glad we can help, but what matters is to survive. Today is payday and every bag is carefully weighed. There`s always trust amongst us, says middleman Motsama. Though he seems a little skeptical. I have to double check they didn`t put any water in the bottles to make them heavier, he says. It must just be the plastic bottles. What reclaimers don`t find end up in a nearby landfill. Even here, the desperate salvage what they can. Back in the neighborhoods, Mokoka`s in a race against the dump trucks. MOKOKA: Done, we have done, done. MCKENZIE: Are you done? MOKOKA: Yeah. MCKENZIE: Just in time. MOKOKA: Yeah. MCKENZIE (voice-over): Today, they arrived a bit late. MOKOKA: I have more stuff today, man. MCKENZIE: More stuff? MOKOKA: More stuff than other days. MCKENZIE (voice-over): Mokoka is proud of his work, proud of his effort. MOKOKA: Yeah, I feel so happy. MCKENZIE (voice-over): I feel so happy, I feel so happy, he says, because I`m going to put bread on the table. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: At the Oakland Zoo, a six-week-old baby giraffe named Kendi is learning to stand on her long spaghetti noodle legs. And she`s looking to   drink water from remote, but she hasn`t quite got her foot just yet.  Today, our 10 out of 10 goes to Kendi where her adorable tent in drinking water has not hindered her from running and kicking like a champ. Our   Jeanne Moos has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT: The Oakland Zoo`s baby giraffe almost has her sea legs. This is one of her last hurdles to drink   from the motte. AMY PHELPS, ZOOLOGICAL MANAGER, OAKLAND ZOO: They have to spread their front feet sort of like a V. MOOS: Almost, almost, but not quite, still this six-week-old giraffe named Kendi has come a long way fast. Even when she was still inside mom`s belly.   Those legs were kicking. Watch her kick again, but it doesn`t hurt mom. PHELPS: They have what we call angel slippers, which is just a soft coating that goes over their hooves. MOOS: Like gummy candy that comes off after the baby exits, Kendi actually stood up for the first time. The same day she was born. PHELPS: They`re kind of like their maid of spaghetti noodles at first. MOOS: But they learned to stand quickly to escape predators. She already runs like a champ and has even started kicking. PHELPS: So they have the ability to kick in all four directions at the same time, with all four legs. MOOS: You can watch Kendi`s progress on the zoo`s live webcam. She may still have trouble reaching the ground to drink. Her legs may look spindly,   but they`re flexible and bendy. PHELPS: In some ways they`re very much like little yoga masters. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Bonus 10 second trivia.  What do you call a collective, or group, of giraffes? I`ll wait. If you said tower, you are correct. Well done.  Now, I also need to give a bonus shout out on the YouTube version of our show today, turns out I had a case of the Mondays and only did one   yesterday. So here we go. Shout out to South Middle School in Arlington Heights, Illinois. We see you. And we are showing some love to Elmira High   School in Elmira, Oregon. Keep shining bright superstars. And big thanks to Putnam Vocational Tech in Springfield, Massachusetts for always having my   back. Salute. Let`s go make it an awesome day. Shall we? I`m Coy. And we are CNN 10. END   

Date: 2023-12-06
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, lovely people. I`m Coy Wire. Welcome to your CNN 10, especially on a #YourWord Wednesday. Follow me @coywire on   Instagram, Snapchat, TikTok, put your unique vocabulary word in the comment section on my most recent post with your school, teacher, mascot, if you   want, and we`re going to choose a winner to work into tomorrow`s show.  Let`s go. We begin today on Capitol Hill where a proposed $105 billion national supplemental security funding package may have stalled in   Congress. Senate Republicans are prepared to vote against a bill, which includes additional aid to Ukraine and Israel. Why? Well, they want   additional changes to this country`s border policies.  President Biden has requested more than $65 billion in aid to support both Ukraine and Israel in their respective wars with an additional $14 billion   for border security here in the United States. Senate Republicans, however, are not budging until some of their issues with immigration and border   security are addressed.  Now, working through policy disputes is a normal part of Congress, but the White House says time is short. Painting, a dire warning about the urgent   need to approve aid to Ukraine in its war with Russia. Our John Laurence has more on the Ukraine-Israel funding plan that`s currently stuck in a   stalemate. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JOHN LAURENCE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The Southern border crisis in the U.S. is having a ripple effect nearly 10,000 miles away in Ukraine. OKSANA MARKAROVA, UKRAINIAN AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED STATES: We are in urgent need of additional support as Russia continues this aggression war.   The battlefield is very hot and Russia is trying to advance. LAURENCE: The White House issued a letter Monday saying, not providing more funds for Ukraine will, quote, "kneecap Ukraine on the battlefield." SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM, (R) SOUTH CAROLINA: I`m not helping Ukraine into way up ourselves. LAURENCE: Senator Lindsay Graham of South Carolina is among the Republicans who want some of the funds to address the U.S.` immigration concerns. SEN. JOHN CORNYN, (R) TEXAS: The security supplemental must include funding and policy reforms to address the crisis at the southern border. LAURENCE: Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer is pushing on the Ukraine- Israel aid package this week. SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER, (D) MAJORITY LEADER: Democrats want to be reasonable on immigration. We`ll willing to make concession but not -- but we will keep   going in circles if Republicans aren`t interested in even meeting us halfway. LAURENCE: Office of Management and Budget Director Shalanda Young says, "If an agreement isn`t reached soon, the U.S. could face critical national   security risks." SEN. CHRIS MURPHY, (D) CONNECTICUT: Unfortunately, many Republican extreme demands are still on the table. Things that Republicans know can`t get   democratic votes and that`s our stumbling block right now.  LAURENCE: I`m John Laurence reporting.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Now, one of the key sticking points with the border talks disagreement is how the immigration authority is being handled. The Biden   administration has leaned on humanitarian parole authority, which includes admitting Afghans after the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan and Ukrainians   following Russia`s invasion.  Other instances, including allowing migrants from designated countries to temporarily live and work in the United States as a way of attempting to   alleviate the surges at the U.S.-Mexico border. But Republicans argue the administration is using their authority too broadly and are seeking to keep   it in control within limits.  With more holidays just around the corner, senators are scheduled to be in the nation`s capital for just two more weeks. A possible option would be   for Majority Leader Chuck Schumer to move to advance an aid package without the border policy changes.  But House Speaker Mike Johnson and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell have insisted that Republican or GOP support for more Ukraine funding is   contingent on tightening immigration laws.  Let`s head to South America now, where Venezuelans voted overwhelmingly on a referendum to approve the takeover of an oil-rich region in the   neighboring country of Guyana. The area in question is the densely forested Essequibo region. Its borders have been disputed for more than a century   and this latest largely symbolic referendum is renewing tensions there. Our David Shortell has more.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DAVID SHORTELL, CNN CRIME AND JUSTICE REPORTER: The referendum held Sunday in Venezuela over the question of whether that country should essentially   create a new state within the land of their neighbor Guyana, passing by a wide margin. This was in reference to the Essequibo region, a very oil-rich   part of Guyana that actually makes up about two-thirds of that country`s national territory.  It`s land that Venezuela has long laid claim to, but the borders of which were set back in 1899 by an international tribunal. So of course, leaders   in Guyana are very concerned in the run-up to this election, calling it an existential threat to their country, and it attempted annexation.  Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro for his part had been campaigning on the issue for several weeks, calling it an opportunity for Venezuelans to   reclaim a part of their country that he says was essentially stolen from them by colonial powers back in the 19th Century.  Now, voters were asked five questions and in preliminary results released by the country`s national election, authority on Sunday evening, voters   overwhelmingly supported the initiative, voting more than 95% of the time, yes, in those five questions.  Now, of course, this is Venezuela. It`s an authoritarian country with no independent election monitors present at the ballot box on Sunday. So these   results have to be taken with a fairly large grain of salt.  Now, analysts say do not expect an invasion of Guyana anytime soon. That`s because if Nicolas Maduro were to actually try to create this state within   Venezuela, it would likely have to involve the use of armed troops to move into Guyana. And that`s not something that he has any support for from even   his closest allies.  Still, it has raised the threat level considerably in the region, Brazil, which shares a border with the region, sending some troops up last week.   And the U.S. actually sending some senior military leaders down to Guyana in recent days in a bit of a show of support for that country.  Now, Guyana`s leaders calling it, as I said, an existential threat to their country and the vice president there in recent days actually invoking   Vladimir Putin`s invasion of Ukraine, saying that all the options are on the table when considering how to deal with this threat.  David Shortell, CNN, Mexico City.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia.  What type of low-level cloud is known to be nearly uniformly thick, dense, and produces steady rain or snow?  Stratus, Cumulus, Stratocumulus, or Nimbostratus? If you said nimbostratus, you are correct.  In Latin, nimbo stands for rain cloud. Stratus means to extend, spread out, flatten, or cover with a layer.  On the weather front, more than 10 million people in the Pacific Northwest of the United States were under flood alert as waves of heavy rain and snow   are saturating the region. The cause? A series of atmospheric rivers. Here to explain the science behind these rivers of the sky, our meteorologists   my man Derek Van Dam.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DEREK VAN DAM, CNN WEATHER ANCHOR: I think it`s best that our viewers think of this as a literal river in the sky. The ability for this to transport   water vapor from the tropical regions of the planet to the mid-latitudes where you and I actually live is just incredible.  And we`re talking about a tremendous amount of water vapor so much so that, that has the ability to transport as much as equivalent of 25 times the   amount of water that flows through the Mississippi River.  So these river in the skies, the atmospheric rivers, we keep talking about produce significant heavy rainfall and mountain snow. That`s when the   freezing level is far enough down in altitude where we can get so much snow.  But this time it`s a little different because you can actually trace back the origin of this atmospheric river all the way back to Hawaii and that   moisture means that it`s pulling in this kind of tropical influenced moisture.  So it`s going to be a warmer AR event or atmospheric river event and we believe that this will be more of a rain event. So the snow we got earlier   in the week, well that`s going to melt. That`s going to add to the flooding concerns because we have a level five of five according to some of the   authorities out there.  So this is a significant event for the coastline of Oregon, even in proportions of Washington.  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is turtlely awesome, dude. And it`s going to leave you shell shocked. On the Island of St. Helena, a sea   shell`s giant tortoise named Jonathan is the world`s oldest living land animal, estimated to be 191 years old.  He`s basically a shellebrity there, even featured on the back of one of their coins. He`s believed to have been born around the year 1832. That`s   before postage stamps were invented, before light bulbs, even pedal bicycles. His latest birthday was quite the shellebration with a cake made   from his favorite foods like cabbage, carrots, lettuce and fruits. Despite being blind and unable to smell, his vet says he`s in good health, showing   no signs of slowing down.  Jonathan should write a shelf help book on longevity. It`d probably be a New York Times best sheller. Thanks to everyone who subscribed and   commented on our CNN 10 YouTube channel, showing some love.  Now, shout out to Henry W. Moore in Candia, New Hampshire, long live the Lancers. And Prescott, Arizona, shout out to the Grizzlies at Granite   Mountain School, rise up. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10 and I`ll see you tomorrow for your word Wednesday. Bring it. END 

Date: 2023-12-07
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello there superstars. Welcome to the show. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news, where we tell you   simply the what, letting you decide what to think. Remember, keep your ears open today. See if your vocab word was chosen to help write today`s show.  We start today talking about math, according to a global exam for 15-year- olds, students around the world experienced an unprecedented drop in math scores since the last time this test was taken in 2018. Now, normally these   assessments are taken every three years by the organization for economic cooperation and development, but it was pushed back due to the COVID-19   pandemic. In the United States, students ranked 28th in mathematics, out of the 37 participating countries. The U.S. did have stronger performances in reading   and science ranking six in reading, 12th in science. U.S. Secretary of Education, Miguel Cardona praised the country`s investments in education,   but acknowledged that improvement is needed specifically pointing to mathematics saying, quote, "We need a math revolution." Next up, some news that could completely change the landscape of college athletics. NCAA President Charlie Baker is proposing a change that would   allow top division one schools to pay their student athletes directly sort of like employees for the first time ever. In a letter to member schools, Baker suggests creating a new subdivision that schools can opt into, one that would require these institutions to   compensate at least half of their student athletes. In the proposal, some athletes can earn a minimum of $30,000 per year. This would be on top of   any scholarship money, the student athletes may already be receiving. This would also be on top of any money the student athlete might make from   personal NIL deals, NIL or name, image, and lightness deals are fairly new. In 2021, a landmark case reshaped the landscape of college sports. The U.S. Supreme Court, deciding that student athletes should be able to appear in   commercials or advertisements for businesses, for example, something that was never allowed by the NCAA before. Baker says this new proposal is about   kickstarting, a long overdue conversation to create more permissive and flexible rules.  Ten second trivia.  What animal became such a popular pet in Rwanda that the species nearly faced extinction?  Lion, monkey, crane or leopard? The grey crowned, crane is your answer here becoming a status symbol appearing in gardens of hotels and at private homes. There were only 300   left in 2012, but local conservation efforts are aimed at helping the crane make a comeback.  Our world`s wonderful wetlands plan, a central role in our planet`s climate. They`re home to rich biodiversity and thousands of species of   animals. But the U.N. says wetlands are disappearing, three times faster than forests. Our resident adventure Bill Weir takes us to some wetlands in   Uganda where avian life dominates. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BILL WEIR, CNN CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT:  In the wetlands of Western Uganda, avian life reigns supreme. The landlocked east African nation is home to   around a thousand species of birds, but none as iconic as the grey crowned crane, proudly lazed at the heart of the Uganda flag. This gentle   terrestrial bird said to be a symbol of progress for the country. ACHILLES BYARUHANGA, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, NATUREUGANDA:  The cranes is one of the most gracious bite. I`m not surprised that Uganda chose it as one to   be our emblem. I have been there studying and working with birds for the last 28 years.  In regard, I`ve got about 1070 different species of birds. At global level, we have got about 10,000 different species of birds. So at that level I`ve   got about between 9% and 10% of the global population of the wild birds. WEIR:  Over recent decades, though, habitats for these colonies have come under severe threat. Since the year 2000, a quarter of Uganda`s wetlands   have been lost and average of nearly 5,000 hectares a year causing rapid and irreversible change to the cradle of the cranes. BYARUHANGA:  It is estimated that if this degradation continues, we shall lose all the wetlands by 2030. And that will be a very big disaster for the   country and for the world.  We started conducting research here in 1995 that`s when we discovered that this wetland had very many species, some of which are endemic to this area.   In other words, if this wetland goes, it means all those species will disappear forever. And that`s when we started working with the communities   to make sure that this wetland can be protected. WEIR:  Across the past three decades, Achilles has pioneered a large-scale restoration program, successfully campaigning for the establishment of 12   wetland sites of international importance across Uganda. This vital intervention is helping cranes return to their natural habitat and   providing a buffer to the human settlements that threatened with hunting, poison, and electrocution from power lines. BYARUHANGA:  We started operations in communities and started incentivizing them so that they can participate. It takes long to work with the -- with   the community group. WEIR:  NatureUganda has also established a network of crane custodians who serve as educators for local communities and bird loving tourists alike. BYARUHANGA:  And this is what we need to fight for. We cannot lose our national symbol. We still have an opportunity to save this beautiful   species. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Have you ever heard of ghost kitchens? And we`re not talking about some haunted kitchen. It`s a term used when talking about online only   restaurants, there`s no brick-and-mortar location where you can go in, order your food, have a seat and eat. During the pandemic, these ghost   kitchens were extremely popular, especially when it came to the high demand of food delivery service. There were such high hopes for ghost kitchens   that they were expected to make up more than 20% of the restaurant industry by 2025, over $6 billion were invested in ghost kitchens during the   pandemic. But now I guess you could say that ghost kitchens are being ghosted, more and more consumers want to get out and eat at restaurants in-  person. And they want to see where they`re getting their food from. Some prognosticators warned that businesses like ghost kitchens, Zoom, Peloton,   Instacart, which boom, during the pandemic might see a major downtick as consumers would want to probably return to their old habits.  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a chicken owner in Tampa, Florida couldn`t beak, leave her eyes when her feathery friends froze. Jeanne Moos   gets to the bottom of this excellent mystery. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) BRIANNA ANTIONETTE, CHICKEN OWNER:  Chickie, Chickie. JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  The owner of these chickens in Tampa, Florida is so new to raising them that she hasn`t   even given to each of the names. ANTIONETTE:  Pepper, pepper, pepper, pepper, and pepper. Because do you see a difference? MOOS: But even a rookie knows, chickens are supposed to run for food. So Brianna Antoinette was stunned.  ANTIONETTE:  Why are you not moving?  Hello? MOOS:  When all five of her chickens simultaneously froze and stayed paralyzed for over two minutes.  (On camera):  What was your immediate thought when they froze? ANTIONETTE:  What you were witnessing in that video is a live panic attack.  What is happening right now? Chickens. MOOS:  The internet had theories. People asked. ANTIONETTE:  Did you try unplugging them and plugging them back in? MOOS:  When Brianna yelled for her fiance, they suddenly uprose. ANTIONETTE:  Nick. What the --  What we now know and what my fiance was able to spot in the tree above was a hawk.  MOOS:  This hawk has killed four of their chickens. They`ve strung fish line above the enclosure to keep the hawk away by standing motionless,   they`re trying to be invisible. Is this what they mean by acting chicken? ANTIONETTE:  Did I do something? MOOS:  Jeanne Moos, CNN. ANTIONETTE:  What the --  MOOS:  New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Dad joke for you. Why are chicken so funny, "because." Thanks to all of you for following along @coywire on social and for your unflagging or   persistent efforts. As Mr. Brown at Sacred Art in Chicago would say submitting vocabulary words for today`s show. Today`s word was submitted by   Kendall Hoffman in Mr. Lucio`s class at Lincolnview High School in Van Wert, Ohio, prognosticator, a noun for a person who foretells or prophecies   a future event. Thanks for boosting our vocab.  Today`s shout out goes to the Hornets at St. Elizabeth R-IV School in St. Elizabeth, Missouri, keep buzzing, baby. And shout out to Franklin Middle   School in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, go thunderbolts. I`m Coy. Thanks for being with us today, see you tomorrow so we can finish this week strong. END 

Date: 2023-12-08
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up sunshine. Welcome to the show. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. Happy Friday, Friyay. Let`s finish this week strong,   take great energy, good vibes into the weekend.  We begin today with the airline industry, as it`s seeing an increasing amount of employees shortage and burnout. During the pandemic, many   aviation workers were furloughed. Then as the pandemic waned and airplanes returned to the skies, Airlines struggled to restaff quickly enough to   match demand. This has caused staffing shortages schedule confusion and long days on the job for some, sometimes working more than 14 hours in a   day.  Plus, according to the U.S. federal aviation administration, there has been an increase in disruptive passenger incidents. These issues aren`t limited   to pilots and flight attendance either, even air traffic controllers have been impacted as their workers union president recently told Congress   they`ve been understaffed and overworked.  All this stress has led to growing concerns over the mental health of aviation industry workers. This issue was put front and center in the case   of Joseph Emerson, an off-duty pilot, who was charged with trying to crash an Alaska airlines flight from inside the cockpit in October. Emerson later told police he`d been battling depression. The FAA has now announced a new committee that will seek to identify and remove any   remaining barriers that discourage pilots from reporting and seeking care for mental health issues like depression or anxiety.  The National Transportation Safety Board recently had a round table discussion with aviation and medical experts on addressing the topic of   pilot`s mental health. Our Karin Caifa has more for us from the summit. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JENNIFER HOMENDY, CHAIR, NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD:  I do want to acknowledge that this can be a difficult topic for some. KARIN CAIFA, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  The National Transportation Safety Board leading an expert discussion on pilots and mental health. HOMENDY:  Let me be clear, the safety risk comes from a culture of silence around mental health, not about seeking help. CAIFA:  Recent research from the University of North Dakota found more than half of pilots avoid seeking healthcare of some type fearing they`ll lose   their FAA medical certification and their ability to fly. That includes mental health concerns from which experts emphasize pilots are not immune. DR. EMANUAL ROBINSON, HUMAN FACTORS PSYCHOLOGIST, AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION:  They`re dealing with their people too. You know, they`re   dealing with their families, they`re dealing with their stresses. And now they`re also having to -- to get people to where they need to be during the   holiday season, which also can be very stressful.  CAIFA:  The case of Joseph Emerson, an off-duty pilot indicted Tuesday on 84 counts in an Oregon court accused of trying to shut off the engines of a   plane mid-flight in October, put the issue of pilot mental health front and center. Emerson told police he`d been depressed for months if not years,   his defense team said he never intended to hurt or put anyone at risk. The government looking to balance passenger safety with the wellbeing of pilots   and other aviation workers. HOMENDY:  It`s not just the right thing to do, it`s the safe thing to do. What`s unsafe is pretending the status quo is acceptable. CAIFA:  On Tuesday, the FAA announced a special committee to explore changes to pilot mental health rules, aiming to break down barriers to   disclosure and seeking help. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Next up, did you hear who was just named Time Magazine`s 2023 Person of the Year? Global Superstar Taylor Swift. Swift beat out eight other   finalists, which included Barbie and King Charles III.  Swift has been dominating stages across the globe with her Eras Tour and movie theaters   with her concert film. Oh, and she also broke Spotify`s record for most single day streams by any artist.  Billboard says Swift is the first entertainer to ever win Time Magazine`s Person of the Year as the award is traditionally gone to activists or   politicians. Check out Taylor Swift`s tweet about the news, Time Magazine says we`d like to name you Person of the Yea --  Taylor says, can I bring my cat. Well, all right, meow. There is some other super talented female entertainers crushing it this year in ticket sales as well. Here`s Maribel   Aber with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MARIBEL ABER, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  From pop superstars to athletes, women dominated the ticket business this year according to StubHub. Taylor Swift   led the way, but Beyonce, Pink, and Adele also had big years of ticket sales. And for the first-time demand for tickets to the women`s final four   college hoops championship was higher than demand for the men`s matchup. Another sign of the rise of women`s sports, the University of Nebraska`s   women`s volleyball team, they drew 92,000 fans to an August match. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten second trivia.   In 1789, Frederick A.C. Muhlenberg became the first person elected as U.S. Speaker of the House. What year was the first woman elected to that   position?  1850, 1980, 2007, 2021? If you said 2007, put your hands up. Nancy Pelosi of California became the first woman Speaker of the House more than 200 years after the position was   established.  Former House Speaker, Kevin McCarthy is resigning from Congress and will leave at the end of this year. McCarthy made the announcement in a Wall   Street Journal Op-Ed. This comes just two months after his unprecedented ouster from the speakership post. McCarthy`s decision will narrow the House   GOPs already slim majority.  Now, let`s turn to a beloved website. One, many universities say you should definitely not cite as a source for your next research paper, though.   Wikipedia it`s released this top 25 most viewed pages in 2023, given us a glimpse into the curious minds across the world. Coming in first place with   over 49 million views in 2023 was ChatGPT showing the world`s growing interest in artificial intelligence.  The second most viewed page was a list of biographical posts about people who passed away in 2023. And coming in both third and fourth places were   post related to cricket, highlighting how India and Southeast Asia`s growing audiences are influencing the internet.  In fact, Hindi language movies like Johan and Pathan made the list alongside American blockbusters like Oppenheimer and   Barbie.  I`d love to know what`s the last thing you search for on Wikipedia.  All right if you have acrophobia or fear of heights, today`s stories getting the 10 out of 10s might not be for you. Take it away. Jeanne Moos. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT:  Two stories in, both many stories high, an American daredevil named Brian Grubb, wake skated the   length of a rooftop pool in Dubai, towed by a drone and then launched from the 77th floor. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Brian`s off the ramp. MOOS:  When he went off, the board stayed tethered to the drone and Brian stayed in free fall for about six seconds until his shoot opened. He then   floated down to the beach for a soft landing. BRIAN GRUBB, WAKESKATER/BASE JUMPER:  And this idea started about 10 years ago or so just as a pipe dream, you know, and we just pulled off the   sickest thing I`ve ever done on a wakeskate, for sure.  MOOS:  You know what else he`d probably laugh at? This, the beam. It`s the latest attraction, the top 30 Rockefeller Center in New York, even some at   home say just watching this gave me anxiety. The ideas for visitors to recreate that famous photo of the iron workers who built 30 rock on a beam,   eating lunch, minus the lunch to get up to the roof and take this three- minute ride cost about 60 bucks. The beams, there are two of them go up 12 feet, then rotate. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You are now facing Central Park.  MOOS:  The price includes a photo, now everyone has an excuse to say.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Scotty Beam is up fast. MOOS:  The Scream Beam and the Epic Leap have one thing in common. Both are --  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Energizing. MOOS:  Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Adventures like those are not for everybody, but we hope they remind and inspire you to maximize your moments. Only 86,400 seconds in a day so   be curious, explore, have fun. Tell your friends and loved ones, you love them.  We have love for you. Thanks for subscribing and commenting all week. This shout out goes to the Bulldogs in Ms. Porter`s class at San Rafael High in   San Rafael, California. What up Elijah? And shine brightly like a diamond. There we go. To all the links in Mrs. Blevins class at Diamond High School   in Anchorage, Alaska, rise up. Going out makes someone smile today. Remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy. It`s been a   blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2023-12-11
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up, sunshine? Welcome to CNN 10. I`m your boy Coy. Happy motivation Monday. Our energy is influenced by that upon   which we focus. So let`s get up to speed on the news of the day, then focus on good vibes only the rest of the way.  We`re going to start today with news of the resignation of the University of Pennsylvania`s President Liz Magill, stepping down over the weekend as   officials at UPenn and other colleges have scrambled to address issues related to freedom of speech and hate speech in regard to the war between   Israel and Hamas. There has been increased criticism of leadership at institutions where there`s a perception that they are not doing enough to   combat antisemitism or prejudice and discrimination against Jews on their campuses.  On December 5, Magill, along with Harvard President Claudine Gay and MIT President Sally Kornbluth, testified for 5 hours before a congressional   hearing about antisemitism on college campuses. Magill faced particular criticism over this exchange, with Representative Elise Stefanik. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ELISE STEFANIK, UNITED STATES REPRESENTATIVE: Specifically calling for the genocide of Jews, does that constitute bullying or harassment?  LIZ MAGILL, PRESIDENT, UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA: If it is directed, and severe, pervasive, it is harassment.  STEFANIK: So the answer is yes.  MAGILL: It is a context dependent decision, Congresswoman. If the speech becomes conduct. It can be harassment, yes.  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: For months, Magill has been under fire over her response to multiple incidents of antisemitism on the University of Pennsylvania`s campus.   Several board members have stepped down and prominent donors have stopped giving money, saying Magill did not go far enough to condemn the incidents.   Fears over antisemitism have reached new heights over the past few months following the October 7 terror attacks by Hamas in Israel and the   subsequent attacks on Gaza by the Israel Defense Forces, or IDF.  Soon after Magill announced her resignation, Chairman of the Board of Trustees Scott Bok also resigned. Here`s CNN`s Polo Sandoval with more.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: In back-to-back resignations, the president of the University of Pennsylvania announcing that she would step   down just moments before the university official who made her announcement announced that he too would be resigning.  Liz Magill announced on Saturday that she would be stepping down from her position as UPenn President. Her university statement, she will remain   tenured faculty at the university`s law school and also agreed to stay on board while they find an interim replacement. As we`ve reported before,   students, faculty, even donors say that they`ve lost confidence in Magill after Tuesday`s pretty disastrous hearing in which she, along with the   Presidents at Harvard and MIT, failed to explicitly say that calls for genocide of Jews would immediately violate the respective university`s   codes of conduct.  Now, moments after Magill`s Saturday evening announcement, Scott Bok said that he too would be stepping down as Chair of the Board of Trustees at the   university. In his statement, Bok writing, quote, "Former President Liz Magill last week made a very unfortunate misstep." Bok eventually writes, "following that, it became clear that her position was no longer tenable and she and I concurrently decided that it was time   for her to exit." Bok also defending Magill, calling her a good person, a talented leader, and in his words, not the slightest bit anti-Semitic.  Bok also sharing some perspective about what may have been Magill`s state of mind the day of this disastrous hearing on the Hill, saying that Magill   was not herself at the time, that she was over-lawyered, that she was over- prepared, and that she provided a legalistic answer to what was a moral question, and that, Bok says, was wrong.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia. What artistic style is renowned Dutch painter Rembrandt known for us? Surrealism, Baroque, Impressionism, Renaissance?  If you answered Baroque, you are "baright." Baroque paintings are known for their dynamic, realistic portrayals of people, everyday life and religious   scenes.  A painting valued at $15,000 just a couple of years ago has now been sold at auction in London for nearly $14 million. You ask how? Well, it`s   because that artwork has been identified as the work of the Dutch master Rembrandt. Adoration of the Kings, which depicts the encounter between the   three wise men and the baby Jesus, has been virtually unseen since the 1950s.  Originally, this painting was believed to be the work by a student or an artist close to the famous Dutch painter. But after further examination,   the auction house says it`s actually the work of Rembrandt painted around the year 1628.  All right, I want you to think of all the food scraps you and your family may have tossed into the trash this week. What if you could take all that   waste and turn it into something useful? While sisters Amna and Hesa from the United Arab Emirates are doing just that, creating accessories from   leftovers you might find in your kitchen waste bin. The fashion industry creates roughly 92 million tons of waste annually.  Amna and Hesa`s eco business is part of a growing trend of designers using creative materials like industrial waste and coffee to chip away at the   industry`s impact on the planet. But is it cost effective? Are these products durable? Let`s find out.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: From this, we created this. And from this, we made this.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Emirati sisters Amna and Hesa are creating leather goods from waste.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: People did not believe us when we told them. These wallets are made from mangoes. If it ends up in the landfill, you know,   it`s going to produce carbon emissions because it`s not a very suitable environment for it to compose naturally.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Creating a full-on sheet from Mango that was just about to get destroyed somewhere, that was the main reason that we went on   and we picked that mango leather.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: When it comes to the cactus leather, it`s a desert plant, so it essentially needs less water. What we want with basically   leather made out of biomaterial is to be as sustainable as possible. Not only looking at the environmental aspect of it, we`re also looking at the   human part of it.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This led them to coffee beans.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The coffee waste is taken from local farmers in Indonesia and local coffee shops. Cafes no longer need to just throw their   waste into the landfill. They can actually give it to the factory and they can produce something new.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Living in the UAE, the government is talking about sustainability, but people are not there yet. There`s nothing stopping us   from creating our own factory. You have the power to create a new drive and to change how fashion is consumed in the emergence.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, is about a dog that was barking up the wrong tree. And not just barking, a 10-month-old German   shepherd puppy named Luna pawed her way up about 30 feet and got stuck. Jeanne Moos tells the tale.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Capped in a tree, no big deal. But --  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Who let the dogs out?  MOOS: Who let the dog up in a tree?  LUKA BOGDANOVICH, FOUND DOG IN TREE: I can`t believe we found her.  MOOS: Luna, the ten-month-old German shepherd, was missing from her lotus, California home all day. And overnight, her owners and their friends   searched the woods. Luka Bogdanovich was driving an ATV.  BOGDANOVICH: Look left, I`ll be darned. I see something in a tree and I went, holy cow, that`s the dog.  BRIAN SPIES, LUNA`S OWNER: He said, I got good news and bad news. I found your dog, but she`s 30 feet up in a tree.  MOOS: Owner Brian Spies, a painter, got his extension ladder.  (On camera): Was she happy to see you?  SPIES: No, she was just frozen in the tree.  MOOS: Though, her wagging tail wasn`t frozen. Brian carried her down the ladder. He figures Luna was chasing a squirrel right up the leaning tree,   then got her leg pinned under a branch.  (On camera): This is going to sound like a tree pun, but Luna didn`t bark?  Nope. Not even when Brian was calling her name and whistling. Right by the pine she was stuck in. Maybe next time Brian will be barking up the right   tree.  BOGDANOVICH: If she ever gets lost again, we look up because she can climb trees.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Poor Luna, had a rough day. All right, lovely people, it`s about that time. Before I go on to show some love to you, I`ve got a shout out going   to Cardinal Ritter High School in Indianapolis, Indiana. We see you. Thanks for reaching out on our CNN 10 YouTube channel. And I`ve got a shout out   going to McKinley Steam Academy in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. I want to wish you an awesome day, going out and let your light shine, everybody. I`ll see you   tomorrow right here on CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-12-12
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up sunshine. Welcome to Tuesday, December 12th. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And tomorrow is #YourWordWednesday. So   follow me @coywire on Instagram, Snapchat, and TikTok. Put your unique vocabulary word and definition in the comment section of a most recent   post. And we`re going to choose a winner that we`ll have to work into tomorrow`s show. Put your school, your mascot and your teacher`s name in   there too, if you like, because we`d like to show some love to you for helping to bolster our vocab.  We`re five weeks away from the first test of the 2024 U.S. presidential election. The Iowa caucuses take place January 15th. And these aren`t   traditional elections. Caucuses can be more like meetings rather than an occasion where individuals say vote in the booth. Fifteen states and   territories in the United States use caucuses. Party members and party leaders use them to meet select delegates and show support for a   presidential candidate by public declaration. Caucuses often help choose delegates for the national conventions that will happen for both Republican   and Democratic parties next summer.  So why do the Iowa caucuses matter? You may ask. Well, while these aren`t primary elections, a candidate`s performance in Iowa is often viewed as a   test for their campaign strength.  In the past, the Iowa caucuses have sometimes predicted the outcome of the presidential election. President George W. Bush for instance, went on to   become president after winning the Iowa caucuses in 2000. The same happened for Barack Obama in 2008.  And if you want to know just how good of an indicator Iowa caucuses are in predicting the next president of the United States, here`s the statistic   for you. 56% of winners of the Iowa caucuses have gone on to win their party`s nomination for the presidency.  Now, another possible indicator of a candidate`s potential future success? Poll. CNN`s David Chalian gives us an outlook at a recent poll from   Michigan and Georgia to other battleground states. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DAVID CHALIAN, CNN POLITICAL DIRECTOR: Take a look in Georgia here, look at the different matchups between President Biden on this side, and three of   the different candidates running on the Republican side. So against Haley 49, 43 in Georgia. Haley bests Biden. Trump 49, 44. DeSantis here actually   -- this is within the margin of error, but he does not perform as well. That sort of damages a bit of his electability argument in the Republican   primary in Michigan, which Joe Biden won by a little bit of a healthier margin than he did Georgia in 2020.  What you see here, Haley trouncing Biden, 50 to 38. Trump, you showed 50 to 40 against Joe Biden. And again, DeSantis is the one that`s the below 50   here, but he also is besting Joe Biden in Michigan.  Underneath the horse race, we look at some attributes. So this in Georgia here, we asked the -- does -- which candidates does not have the attributes   you want a president to have when it comes to temperament? OK, that is Donald Trump`s worst score, 58% say he doesn`t have that quality, 47% say   that of Biden. But across the other three, understanding people like you, policy positions and sharpness and stamina, which is Joe Biden`s weakest   point. You see 66% of Georgia voters say that Biden does not have the sharpness and stamina that they`re looking for in a president. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: In line with our election coverage today, which U.S. state will be the first to hold a primary election a few days after the Iowa caucuses? New Hampshire, Hawaii, Florida, or New York? If you set New Hampshire, ding, ding, ding, you are correct. New Hampshire`s had the tradition of holding the first U.S. presidential   primary since the year 1920. This year, that will happen on January 23rd.  All right, now we want to highlight someone doing extraordinary things. Our CNN audience voted that the recipient of this year`s CNN Hero of the Year   Award should go to Dr. Kwane Stewart. He cares for the pets of people experiencing homelessness. Dr. Stewart said that he wanted to be a   veterinarian ever since he was a kid. Then he started a nonprofit called Project Street Vet more than a decade ago, after helping to examine and   treat the dog of a homeless man outside of a 7/11, where he used to get his coffee. The dog owner`s words, thank you for not ignoring me. Well, they inspired Dr. Stewart to help more people in similar situations. He started by   setting up small drop-in clinics to provide free medical care to pets whose owners wouldn`t be able to afford otherwise. And since then, Dr. Stewart   and his volunteer teams have treated thousands of animals while giving their owners some hope and dignity too.  In his award ceremony speech, Dr. Stewart spoke about what it means to him. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The 2023 CNN Hero of the Year is Dr. Kwane Stewart. (CHEERING & APPLAUSE) DR. KWANE STEWART, 2023 CNN HERO OF THE YEAR: If I, as a child, could dream of doing something that was impactful, then I think I found it, or it found   me. And I`m so lucky to be doing what I`m doing.  It`s been a wonderful journey, and as I get older, I start thinking about those big questions in life. Why are we here? What defines us? Why are we   human? And I think the answer, at least for me, the answer is in the question. What does it mean to be human? And I believe it`s humanity. It`s   looking out for each other, believing in each other, helping one another. And all of these people embody that. (CHEERING & APPLAUSE) This part certainly wasn`t planned, but the $100,000, I want to celebrate with all of you. It splits evenly ten ways pretty nicely, so it is my   contribution to all of us. I want to say I`m honored to know you and to be a part of this fraternity. (CHEERS AND APPLAUSE) This part certainly wasn`t planned, but the $100,000, I want to celebrate with all of you. It splits evenly ten ways pretty nicely, so it is my   contribution to all of us. I want to say I`m honored to know you and to be a part of this fraternity. (CHEERS & APPLAUSE) I`m here in part because -- I`m here in part because I`ve been willing to share and give throughout my life. There`s no reason to stop doing that   tonight. I have one last quick thought. I was in the streets one day, and an unhoused man and his pet, after I delivered care, we got to talking. And he   said sort of nonchalant, he hadn`t eaten in almost two days. And I was due for lunch myself. I returned with a sandwich for myself and for him. He tore off -- it was a sub sandwich. He tore off a corner of it, a piece of bread. He ate it, and he gave the rest to his dog. And they`ve taught me   a lot, too. I`ll close by saying this. An act of kindness can change your day. Change someone`s day. An act or gesture of kindness can change somebody`s life. Thank you. (CHEERS & APPLAUSE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 it`s one that makes me feel good from my head "tometoes." The mystery of the missing tomato. American   astronaut Frank Rubio became one of the first to grow and harvest a tomato in space. It was "ultomatoly" his passion project during a record breaking   stay on the International Space Station. It lasted more than 371 days, longer than any American astronaut in history. But his tomato went missing.   Colonel Rubio said he probably spent 20 hours searching, but he was unable to catch up with it before he had to return to earth.  Well, eight months past harvest day when Colonel Rubio said he was sure that he had securely Velcro the tomato in a little bag, he got some mighty   vine news from his former crew mates. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We can exonerate him. We found the tomatoes. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: All right. I got a chance to meet Colonel Frank Rubio this weekend at the army Navy game. And I asked him about his mission in space. Full   disclosure though, I was not brave enough to ask him about the missing veggies. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: I`m here with Colonel Frank Rubio recently back from the longest ever mission in space, 371 days. Welcome back, sir. FRANK RUBIO, ASTRONAUT: Thanks so much, Coy. Yeah, I appreciate it. Longest for an American astronaut.  WIRE: Yes.  RUBIO: And it`s awesome to be here and it`s awesome to be here with my family. WIRE: Yes. And so we have house divided, you know, first Colonel here, he went to Army West Point, graduate of 1998, but it`s house divided Andrew,   as you can see in Lydia are on opposing size of today`s epic rivalry. Colonel, we`ll start with you. What makes this rivalry so special? RUBIO: You know what, it`s the fact that we are absolutely going to go at it today and Army`s going to win for sure. But the other 364 days, we are   brothers and sisters in arms. We work together and I work with some amazing Navy people out there. And so, yeah, we are best of friends except for   today, WIRE: Except for today.  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Awesome to be here with you. I hope you got some inspiration from today`s show. Harriet Tubman once said, always remember you have within   you, the strength, patience, and the passion to reach for the stars to change the world.  All right, time to show some love. This shout outs going to Crockett Middle School in Hamilton, New Jersey, go, go, go Cougars. Thank you for letting   us spent part of our day with you.  And this shout out goes to the Red Hawks in Albany, in the State of Oregon, South Albany High School, rise up. Shine, bright superstars. Thanks for   making us part of your day. We appreciate you and we`ll see you right back here tomorrow.  I`m Coy Wire. And we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-12-13
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up sunshine. I`m Coy Wire. Welcome to your CNN 10, especially on a #YourWordWednesday. Remember, keep your ears open   to see if your vocab word was chosen to help right today`s show, let`s go.  We start today on Capitol Hill, where Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy made a visit to Washington D.C. Why? Well, President Biden has   asked Congress to approve an emergency funding bill that would send around $60 billion in new support to Ukraine.  Ukraine has been locked in a war with Russia for almost 22 months now after Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered his troops into Ukraine for what   was called a special military operation.  The U.S. has already sent more than 110 billion in support to Ukraine, but the White House says those funds are almost completely gone and more is   needed.  Zelenskyy`s visit to the U.S. comes as efforts to approve more aid have stalled in Congress. Though, there is still bipartisan support to help   Ukraine, some Republicans have argued there is another growing crisis that is not receiving enough attention, an influx of illegal immigration at the   U.S. Southern border.  Some lawmakers want additional support along the border and tighter regulations for immigration. And their concerned U.S. national security   could be ignored while Congress focuses on Ukraine. Immigration policies and border security have been particularly divisive issues. And that has continued as congressional negotiators have struggled   for weeks to come up with an agreement. Lawmakers are only scheduled to be in session through next week before the holidays. But if a deal is not   reached by then, some senators argue they should stay through the holidays to find a solution so that Ukraine can get the additional support they   need.  Ten second trivia.  Pyongyang is the capital of what country? North Korea, Indonesia, Thailand, or Singapore.  If you said North Korea, put your hands up. The capital Pyongyang is said to be the oldest city on the Korean Peninsula.  We now turn to North Korea, a country that has largely been isolated from most of the world through diplomatic and financial sanctions. Despite these   economic difficulties, North Korean Leader, Kim Jong Un has pushed his country toward developing a massive arsenal of weapons. Something the   country has been doing for many years.  But there are new questions as to how the nation is funding these expensive projects. And experts are looking into the possibility that a shadow army   of hackers is funding this military push. It is believed this complex organization of international criminals have stolen billions of dollars in   cryptocurrency over the last several years. CNN`s Will Ripley explains (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WILL RIPLEY, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Every North Korean missile test, every satellite launch, every nuclear test likely cost Kim Jong Un`s cash star   country, millions of dollars. Where does that money come from? How does Kim`s regime evade heavy sanctions advancing its nuclear end ballistic   missile programs at breakneck speed? ANNE NEUBERGER, DEPUTY NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR: We certainly believe that North Korean hacking of cryptocurrency around infrastructure around the   world is a major source of revenue for the regime. RIPLEY: A staggering more than 3 billion in stolen crypto over the past five years. U.S. lawmakers say, a record $1.7 billion last year alone. SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN, (D) MASSACHUSETTS: So where does that money go? Straight into North Korea`s illegal nuclear program. RIPLEY: An underground pipeline of illicit wealth fueling Kim`s nuclear ambitions, pumping payments into Pyongyang from places like Russia, China,   Hong Kong, Singapore and Vietnam. WARREN: Does that pose a threat to our national security?  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It does, Senator, yeah.  RIPLEY: The U.S. believes North Korea has a global shadow army secret operatives posing as I.T. professionals, government officials, freelance,   blockchain developers, even hiring Westerners to hide their connection to Pyongyang.  Spanish police arrested Alejandro Cao de Benos earlier this month, known as a special delegate for North Korea. The U.S. accuses him of helping North   Korean officials use tech for money laundering. He posted a message on X, formerly known as Twitter, saying, there is no extradition. The U.S.   accusation, besides being false does not exist in Spain. Blacklisted by the U.S. as modern-day digital pirates, North Korean operatives are linked to ransomware attacks, targeting online gaming,   gambling, and banking industries. Even American hospitals, North Korea exploiting online vulnerabilities, using stolen money to mass-produce   missiles, funding the Kim family`s lavish lifestyle. Palaces, planes, yachts, and this armored Mercedes limousine carried on Kim`s private train   to that September summit with Russian President Vladimir Putin. The latest breach from North Korea`s notorious Andariel hacking group targeting South Korean defense firms and others. A year-long investigation   by South Korean police and the FBI exposing grave vulnerabilities in Seoul`s cybersecurity defenses. Around 250 sensitive files, 1.2 terabytes   of classified data stolen. A crime concealed through rented servers. A secretive trail of digital deception leading straight to the North Korean   capital. Breaching borders. Defying digital defenses. Threatening global stability. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: We turn now to Eastern Europe, specifically Bosnia and Herzegovina as we explore the planet, our shared home and shed light on how our actions   can impact natural spaces and what we can do to protect and nurture them. CNN`s Zain Asher takes us to a region known as the Blue Heart of Europe,   where several hydropower projects threaten this exquisite river system and the wildlife that calls it home. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ZAIN ASHER, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): In the dense forest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a strip of blue green water carves its way from the   Dinaric Alps to the Adriatic Sea. ULRICH EICHELMANN, CAMPAIGN COORDINATOR, SAVE THE BLUE HEART OF EUROPE: The Neretva is probably one of the most exceptional rivers in Europe. It looks   like pure wilderness. ASHER (voice over): But this is changing. According to the Center of environment, a Bosnian NGO, more than 50 hydropower plants are proposed   along the rivers 140-mile length.  EICHELMANN: Dams destroy rivers completely. Because the impact is not only where the dam actually is, you impact everything upstream and everything   downstream. ASHER (voice over): This is why Ulrich Eichelmann together with more than 60 scientists converged on the banks of the Neretva in June as part of the   Save the Blue Heart of Europe campaign. They`re on a mission to collect data on the rivers unique biodiversity and to build a case for why it   should be preserved. EICHELMANN: We need to do more than ever before to save the last remnants of European beauty. ASHER (voice over): For some scientists like Kurt Pinter, saving the river means waiting out into the crystal waters and discovering who lives in it.   But there is one species in particular he`s searching for. KURT PINTER, FRESHWATER ECOLOGIST, UNIVERSITY OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND LIFE SCIENCES, VIENNA: What we try to find here is the soft mouth trout. It`s a   very special and endemic trout which can only be found in the few rivers in this area.  ASHER (voice over): Already endangered, he fears the proposed dams could drive it to extinction. This could cause ripple effects across the   surrounding ecosystems. It`s a delicate balance between providing energy and protecting the environment. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, hydropower is a   key source of electricity, and it could help the country transition away from fossil fuels. The campaign says it`s not against hydropower altogether. But it wants to implement No Go Zones in areas of key biodiversity. EICHELMANN: When a small doses might be correct and healthy, if you take too much of it, it`s deadly. ASHER (voice over): Recent history shows that nature can win. In March 2023 after several years of campaigning, the Vjosa, a river in the nearby Balkan   country of Albania was granted protection.  The Balkans is one of the few areas of Europe where free flowing natural river systems still exist. For scientists and conservationists alike, that   is reason enough to preserve them. EICHELMANN: This we call it the blue heart, because it`s the last large area where we have this jewel, it`s like a gift to Europe, that these   rivers survive the decades of destruction. And on the Balkans, we have this one chance to keep this blue heart beating. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 cycle enthusiast, Santa slay, what? Most of them were not doniferous but they were all gathering for a   good Claus.  Yes, you heard me right, a group of Kris Kringle clad riders rocking the streets of Madison, Wisconsin for the Third Annual Santa Cycle Rampage.   Rampage, not sure that`s the name that would match this U tide pedaling you`re seeing here. The holly jolly event featured a festive four-to-five-  mile ride to benefit school safety programs. Talk about a jolly old journey.  All right, dad, joke alert. What kind of motorcycles does Santa ride? A Holly Davidson.  Ho-ho, thanks to all of you for following along @coywire on social. Today`s word was submitted by Tiffany Ms. Eddie`s (ph) class at Cope Middle in Redlands, California. doniferous, an adjective meaning bearing gifts.   Well done.  Today`s shout out goes to Elida Middle School in Elida, Ohio, go bulldogs. And we have a shout out going to Red Lion Area High School in Red Lion   Pennsylvania, keep roaring you all.  I`m Coy Wire. Thanks for joining us today. I`ll see you right back here tomorrow. Have an awesome day. END 

Date: 2023-12-14
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up superstars, happy Thursday, happy Friday Eve. I`m Coy Wire. This is a very special Thursday edition of CNN 10,   because this is the penultimate show of the year. That means the second to last show of 2023. So let`s continue to make this the best 10 minutes in   news, where I simply tell you the what, letting you decide what to think.  We start today with news out of Dubai, where nearly 200 countries agreed to a landmark climate deal at this year`s COP28 conference. It includes an   unprecedented call to transition away from fossil fuels like oil, gas, and coal.  Now, it is important to note, this deal is not legally binding and can`t on its own force, any country to act. But this year`s conference president   notes, it`s still the first-time language on fossil fuels has been included in a final agreement.  Now, despite the historic deal, there are some loopholes. The biggest is the wording, and this can get tricky, so bear with me. Notice how earlier I   said transition. Well, that is how things are phrased because the deal does not require countries to phase out coal oil and gas. Instead, the agreement   provides eight pathways to achieve net zero by the year 2050.  Those other options include tripling, renewable energy or using technology that can capture carbon dioxide emissions to keep them from the atmosphere.   In other words, a country can keep using fossil fuels at the same rate as they do today and still comply with the agreement. It`s this murky language   that leaves some people skeptical, even as many praise, this historic deal. Environmental activists say it doesn`t go far enough and provides loopholes for countries to avoid instituting major change. There are also critics who   say the agreement does not provide necessary funding for developing countries still dependent on fossil fuels to supply energy, income, and   jobs. Still with 2023 listed as the hottest year on record, activists are hoping that this will help move the world forward in battling climate   change.  OK, from the announcement of one historic milestone to the ramifications of another, just over a year ago, a technology startup called OpenAI released   an experimental chat bot called ChatGPT. Since then the world has experienced an artificial intelligence revolution of sorts. This year has   seen major tech companies pour billions into the concept while world governments grapple with how to best regulate it.  What`s clear, though, is that we don`t really know how this AI revolution will actually look. And that`s particularly clear with its effects on jobs.   Earlier this year, CNN spoke to a professor about his study, examining how some professions are more threatened by AI than others. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Rapid advancement of AI platforms, such as ChatGPT has everyone from librarians to judges, to nurses, to criminal investigators   asking how exposed is my job? PROF. ROBERT SEAMANS, MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATIONS, NEW YORK UNIVERSITY: Lots of people are interested in understanding, what types of jobs are   going to be affected by AI, what policy responses we might want to think about from a societal point of view. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is Professor and AI expert, Rob Seamans, and he co- authored a paper ranking, nearly 800 jobs in their exposure to artificial intelligence, particularly to AI language modeling. SEAMANS: So I`m not in the top 20, however, I am number 22 on the list. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The methodology takes 52 human abilities used at various jobs as defined by the Department of Labor. SEAMANS: There could be things like inductive and deductive reasoning, image recognition, language comprehension, and to ones that are much more   physical. So trunk strength, arm, hand, steadiness, something like that. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And maps those 52 human abilities to 10 areas where AI most excels. SEAMANS: Things like image, generation, image recognition, language modeling, and things like that. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The more those AI skills and human abilities overlapped, the more a job was determined to be exposed to AI. To focus the study, they   did not consider the effects of robots and other automated machines in the research. And that skewed the rankings for some jobs that you might think   would be more vulnerable to advances in technology. SEAMANS: Workers in a manufacturing setting or maybe transportation and warehouse type settings, score very low in an exposure to AI, as opposed to   exposure to other types of automation. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The type of job is that the study found or most exposed to AI, white collar occupations, often with high education requirements and   higher pay. SEAMANS: If you look at the top 20 occupations that are most exposed to advances in language modeling, 14 of those top 20 are professors. If you   look at the number one thing that a professor does, it`s prepare and deliver lectures. And we know that language modeling is really helpful when   it comes to preparing content that you might later on, then deliver to a classroom. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: AI`s ability to recognize and generate language exposes a wide variety of white-collar professions, such as mental health   counselors, writers, areas of the legal industry, even preachers. SEAMANS: Now, praying, of course, large language models are not going to be very helpful with that. But in terms of creating the sermons that you might   deliver, you would imagine that, you know, just like large language models could help a, a clergy person do that, same thing, with -- with a college   professor. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And the number one job that is most exposed, telemarketers. SEAMANS: Part of the reason why telemarketers are so exposed to advances in language modeling, have to do with probably the amount of, speaking that   they do and the amount of, you know, listening and responding on the fly to the comments that they get from whoever they`re calling. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So how exactly might AI change our jobs in the future now?  SEAMANS: Just because an occupation is more exposed to advances in AI doesn`t mean that that job is that threat of being substituted, but it`s   not that lots of jobs will disappear. I don`t think that will happen. However, I do think that many, many jobs will change. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia. Which of these is a part of the United Kingdom? England, Scotland, Wales, or Northern Ireland? Sorry, not sorry, trick question. The four listed here all make up the United Kingdom, which is sometimes referred to as a country, made up of   countries. A story from Scotland now, scientists believe the world`s carbon dioxide levels are at their highest level in more than 2 million years.   These reports suggest removing CO2 from the atmosphere is a necessary part of keeping a healthy planet.  Now, carbon capture and removal is still a relatively new and unproven field, but CNN`s Bill Weir traveled to Scotland to see if a startup there   has one solution to remove carbon pollution already in the atmosphere. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BILL WEIR, CNN CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Over millennia, volcanic rocks have formed some of Scotland`s most spectacular sites, but now they   could also provide a solution to pull carbon out of the sky and lock it underground. JIM MANN, FOUNDER & CEO UNDO: Rock weathering is a natural process, so CO2 in our atmosphere combines with water vapor in our atmosphere and they will   react to form a weak carbonic acid, that reacts to certain types of rocks to remove CO2. WEIR: Scottish company Undo takes that natural process and dramatically accelerates it by grinding down volcanic rocks like basalt into a fine   powder, the surface area increases so when the rock gets spread across agricultural land, there is more contact, rainfall, and CO2 and vastly more   carbon is captured. XINRAN LIU, HEAD OF SCIENCE AND RESEARCH, UNDO: UNIDENTIFIED MALE: In its powdered form, kind of like coffee or tea in the morning, if you crush down   your beans finely, you unlock those reactive surface areas and then you can mass, even create a very potent brew very quickly. MANN: When we`re putting the basalt down on agricultural land, we typically apply it at about 20 tons per hectare. And that`s across the whole farm so   thousands and thousands of hectares now. And we`re spreading about 30,000 tons of silicate rock every month now. So that 30,000 tons will be in the   somewhere region of 7,000 or 8,000 tons of CO2. LIU: We have developed a detailed geochemical model to enable us to predict multiple decades into the future how much rock has been weathered. So from   current finding, there is huge potential for enhanced rock weathering. We could contribute to 5-10 gigatons annually of carbon dioxide removal in the   future. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Imagine if you could make your gingerbread house look like anything in the world, the White House, your grandma`s house, the Eiffel Tower.  Today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, a woman from Williamson County, Texas was visiting a Buc-ee`s gas station when inspiration struck. The   innovators, an employee at the local tax assessor`s office created a detailed gingerbread replica of the national chain to spread some holiday   cheer, full of candy and clever touches. You can see shoppers browsing, even pictures of her coworkers hunting for directions and pumping gas.  All right, for any of you out there who might make gingerbread houses, do you stick with the traditional or do you try to get creative? Mine always   end up looking like churches, because I take huge bites out of them in there. Holy.  Well, as I mentioned at the beginning of this show, it`s our second to last show of 2023, but that means there`s still time to recognize a few of you   lovely people who make our work so fulfilling.  Today`s shout out goes to Dwight D. Eisenhower Middle School in Manhattan, Kansas, fly Eagles fly. And this shout out goes to Pioneer Technology and   Arts Academy in Dallas, Texas, go Chargers. Thanks for being with us today. See you right back here tomorrow so we can finish this week and this year   strong.  I`m Coy Wire. And we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2023-12-15
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up lovely people. Happy Friyay. I`m Coy Wire. Welcome to CNN 10, very special episode because it`s our last Friday   together in 2023, it`s been such a blessing to be a part of your day, learning with you, get to interact with you is the main reason CNN 10 for   me is the best 10 minutes in news.  Let`s get this final show of the year started. Most often with our show, we take you to places near and far to explore the latest news stories. But   today we traveled to some of you. We spent a morning with 9th Graders at South Brunswick School in New Jersey, one of three states that requires K   through 12 schools to offer media literacy courses. Starting next year, a fourth state will be added to the list with California, joining New Jersey,   Texas, and Delaware.  Now media literacy might sound like a convoluted term, but the nonprofit organization, media literacy now explains it as a way to teach young people   how to consume and evaluate information in our complex and interchanging media landscape. The aim is to empower students like you to ask critical   questions and avoid manipulation.  Why is this important? Well, as our world moves online, more people are getting their news from social media outlets. And while these resources   allow for more diverse voices and stories to be heard, it also opens the door for misinformation and then manipulation at times. From manipulating   images and videos to half-truths and false profiles to even online intimidation, there are plenty of tactics being used every day to confuse   and mislead.  So how do you equip audiences to be savvy news consumers in this wild west type of environment? One of our CNN 10 producers, Natalia Osipova, spoke to   teachers and students of the media literacy class to show you what it`s all about. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) URJA KANDALE, 9TH GRADER: I think the big public sources, there`s so many of them, and they all have different viewpoints.  AKSHARA SATHEESH, 9TH GRADER: And it`s hard to see which one true or not. HARRISON PEKOSZ, 9TH GRADER: I thought it was very interesting to think about the word choice that people news and how it can influence your   opinions. LISA MANGANELLO, LIBRARIAN, SOUTH BRUNSWICK HIGH SCHOOL: When we poll our students, we found that 75% of them get their information off of social   media. How do you become a more savvy news consumer? I`d like to say that my 14-year-olds are better at information gathering than their parents and   their grandparents might be. The media lessons allow them to take that skill and then add to it.  (On camera): We`re going to use something called Lateral Reading to help you figure out if what`s what you`re reading is credible or not.  JEFF JOHNSON, HISTORY TEACHER, SOUTH BRUNSWICK HIGH SCHOOL: And if you find something that you think is trying to make you feel a certain ways, even   better.  I need to catch, wait a minute. Why am I feeling like this? Do I believe this? Or I just told somebody something happened, but did I even check that   that actually happened or that that`s even a big deal to me. Like, why am I saying it`s a big deal? MANGANELLO: Tell me what words you see in these headlines that you think shows bias? UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Revenge.  MANGANELLO: Oh, revenge.  So much of what we hear is you`re attacking the other side or attacking the other person. Media literacy has absolutely nothing to do with which side   of the debate you`re on. And I often say to my students, I don`t care if you are conservative or you are liberally. It really doesn`t make a   difference to me, whatever article you`re choosing, I want you to be able to look at it from a critical lens and really make my decision about   whether or not this is a trustworthy article.  How else can I say it besides threatened, take it down a notch for me? How do you state it factually? You can have an opinion on either side, but you   should be able to validate that opinion with a fact-based article.  Information literacy is going to give them those skills. So is the photograph that`s attached to that story? Flattering, neutral or   unflattering? What does that say about this? Whether or not we should trust this article.  You give them how to decide if something is credible, how to detect bias, how to determine if something is coming from a credible source. If you pair   that with what they already do well, I think then you have the potential to really see change.  PEKOSZ: I think it`s important to have these classes at school because they`re more people turning 18. And a lot of them are getting all of their   information from social media that that think that`ll impact how they vote and will impact the country as a result. MANGANELLO: We don`t want to limit those research skills to just their school projects, because think about your own life. Like we all have that   ant that wants to post things and the things that they`re posting, maybe aren`t 100% accurate. We want to give our kids language to be able to speak   to that, to say, hey, I was interested in that topic too. And I get some research and here are two other sites. I found that talk about that topic   differently.  That`s giving the person that you`re talking to the opportunity to reflect on what you said. Maybe read a little bit and not feel like you`re   attacking them, which I think is really dangerous in this media environment. These are kids that are going to go out and do brilliant   things. We need them to think about how they accept information in a smarter way, because I think that will change the way we all do.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia. Counting repeats, how many total items are gifted in the song "12 Days of Christmas?" 12, 364, 199, 93? Adding up all those turtle doves, French hens, drummers drumming, and golden rings, it`s yet 364 items, almost one for every day of the year. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: As we come to the end of 2023, one of the biggest pieces of economic news that`s been hitting our wallets this year is   inflation. Even the classic holiday song, "12 Days of Christmas" is not immune to it. In what has become an annual holiday tradition, PNC bank calculates the prices of all 12 gifts from the carol and releases what they calls the   Christmas price index.  It`s similar to the U.S. consumer price index, which measures the changing prices of goods and services that the average American consumer spends on,   such as housing, food, clothing, and transportation, the 40th Annual Christmas price index showed an increase of 2.7%. But the good news, that`s   much less than last year`s heavy, 10.5% increase.  If you add up all 12 gifts that may get the latest Christmas price index report, the total cost increased nearly $47,000 this year. Although the   partridge cost was unchanged, there was a 15% jump for the pear tree, a symbol for housing costs that continue to move higher even as mortgage   rates are at their highest since 2000. The turtle doves are the most volatile gift price in the index this year, growing by 25%. The cost reflects their rarity. There were several gifts   with no price increases from last year, including the four calling birds, five gold rings and seven swans a-swimming.  If you`re looking to buy all gifts mentioned, a total of 364 items as the gifts are constantly repeated throughout the iconic song. Get ready to dish   out nearly $202,000, 2.5% more than last year. It`s the first time that purchasing all the gifts cross the $200,000 threshold. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 comes out of Springfield, Missouri. This Santa Claus, no sign language. Meet the big guy, breaking   through barriers to spread holiday cheer. This signing Santa communicates with deaf and hearing-impaired children using ASL, or American Sign   Language, making sure that no one feels left out and that every kid can get direct access to share their holiday wish list with the big man.  All right, hope all of you are getting ready for that holiday spirit, whatever holidays you may enjoy, I know I sure am. It`s time now for our   shoutouts of the year, the final ones of 2023. This shout out goes to the Eagles at Discovery Middle School in Fargo, North Dakota, rise up. And this   shoutout goes to the Glacier Bears, way up in Haines, Alaska, Haines High School, rise up.  I`d like to take this moment to speak for my entire team here at CNN 10. When I say thank you from the bottoms of our hearts, for all the love you   show, we love learning and going with you, being unified, inspired and uplifted by the stories we share. And to my team, you`re the best teammates   anyone could ask for, thank you for caring and working so hard to make CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in years.  We`ll be right back here with you January 8th, and we wish you lots of joy, peace, love, and happiness this holiday season. Let`s finish this 2023   strong, take boundless energy into the New Year, where I will be reporting from the future, chaser. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this year with you. END 

Date: 2024-01-08
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello lovely people. Feel like we haven`t seen each other since last year. Happy New Year. Hope your 2024 is off to an   epic start. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we are so grateful that you choose to spend part of your day with us.  This is going to be a big year. We have the U.S. presidential election in November. We have the Summer Olympics in Paris. We have a solar eclipse   taken place in April, and it`s a leap year. We get an extra day in February, so that means we get 366 days to make this year great.  Let`s get this show on the road. Mother nature starting 2024 in full force. A powerful winter storm is making its presence felt throughout the nation,   bringing all sorts of winter mix, including heavy snowfall, freezing rain and gusty winds. The size of this storm ranges from the Southwestern part   of the U.S. to the Northeast, where more than 30 states are impacted. More than 35 million people were under winter storm alerts over the weekend and traveling was treacherous, especially in the Northeast, as state   officials advise commuters to avoid unnecessary travel. The planes region of the U.S. is expected to see strong winds that could bring wind chill   values below zero degrees. Flooding even tornadoes may be a concern for the Gulf coast area. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The Times Square Ball Drop is a hallmark of New Year`s Eve. One minute before January 1st, the sparkling ball begins its descent.   The ball drop has taken place annually since 1907. It was halted for two years during World War II, the crowds still flocked to Times Square. Until   1995, the Ball Drop was managed by the family company of its first creator, Jacob Starr.  Since then, there have been many makeovers of the famous ball, including crystals, grindstones and strobe lighting. Whether this enduring ritual has   the audience a few or many, it always marks the end of the old, the beginning of the new. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Ten second trivia. Scientists named Antarctic icebergs based on what? Their size above the surface, size below the surface, their shape or location of first sighting? The U.S. National Ice Center assigns names to these icebergs based on where they are first sighted. And then the order in which they are sighted.  The world`s largest iceberg is named A23a, it was the 23rd iceberg cited in the A quadrant of Antarctica. The continent is divided into A, B, C, and D   quadrants. Did you know? Recently scientists studied A23a as it recently started drifting around the Antarctic peninsula again. This iceberg is   about three times the size of New York City weighing nearly a trillion tons. CNN spoke with the Antarctic Survey team about this force of nature   and where it might be headed next. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Antarctic scientist had a quote unique opportunity to observe the world`s largest iceberg, three times the size of New York City.   The iceberg broke away from the Filchner-Ronne Ice Shelf more than 30 years ago, but it stayed grounded on the Antarctic`s wet sea and only started   moving recently. Now, it`s drifting around the Antarctic peninsula. The research team on the RRS Sir David Attenborough, cross paths with the   iceberg early December. DR. ALEXANDER BREARLEY, PHYSICAL OCEANOGRAPHER/HEAD OF OPEN OCEANS, BRITISH ANTARCTIC: I was just incredibly excited to see it. It`s -- it`s really   quite staggering in scale. If you`re up against it, it almost just looks like land. It has these big towering ice cliffs. You know, you`re   stretching sort of, as far as the eye can see in both directions. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: As the iceberg moves north into warmer waters, it`s gradually melting and producing melt water into the ocean. Scientists took   water samples around the iceberg to try to understand the impacts it may have on the physical circulation and nutrients of the ocean. BREARLEY: We know that large icebergs like this have the potential to, to bring a large amount of, of mineral dusts from the continent into the   operation. And many of the -- the ecosystems in the operation are limited by the amount of nutrients that are available. So they can act as big   sources of, of nutrients and, you know, impacts near surface productivity that ultimately sustains the -- the ecosystems of the -- of the southern   nation. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Experts believe the iceberg will likely discharge into the Scotia sea and end up close to the South Georgia island. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: American shoppers spend a record 222 billion online this past holiday season. But let`s be honest, not all those purchases are keepers, if you   know what I mean, maybe that sweater that your auntie got doesn`t quite make the cut. So you send it back.  Now, many companies offer free returns, right? But those returns might not go where you may think they`d go CNN`s Peter Valdes-Dapena explains. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PETER VALDES-DAPENA, SENIOR WRITER, CNN BUSINESS: Free returns, their customer`s insurance policy for shopping online. But what happens to those   returns after you give them back might surprise you. ALBERT PALACCI, CEO, 888 LOTS: So customers really believe that the product just goes into the black hole or ends up being resold to another customer.   In many instances, that`s not the case. VALDES-DAPENA: In reality, many of these products never return anywhere. Instead, they may end up here or even here. JASON GOLDBERG, CHIEF COMMERNCE STRATEGY OFFICER, PUBLICIS: You know, easily 25% of all these returns get destroyed. VALDES-DAPENA: In fact, returns have become such a headache for retailers that in some cases they`re just refunding customers and letting them keep   or donate the unwanted items. GOLDBERG: The cost of getting the product back from the customer is much higher than traditionally just getting the product to the customer. VALDES-DAPENA: Turns out, free returns are far from it. GOLDBERG: There`s a very large disparity between the amount of returns that have been from consumers that buy products online versus in the store. In a brick-and-mortar store, we typically get somewhere between 5 and 10% returns. But online we get north of 30% returns. VALDES-DAPENA: Accepting a return isn`t always easy either. A warehouse optimized for fulfilling orders now has to receive a product and inspect   it. Then someone needs to decide whether it can be resold or not. In the end, an online return can require up to 20% more space and labor than one   made in store. Those costs are part of why Optoro, a return solution company, estimates that returning a $50 item can cost a retailer 59% of its   sale price. Often, the math just doesn`t add up. PALACCI: So this is a product that came in one of these pallets. VALDES-DAPENA: Liquidators like this one are the middle man between retailers and resellers. PALACCI: We sort, organize, process and figure out methods to get them to the right home. And that`s -- that`s really what we do here. VALDES-DAPENA: They buy returned merchandise, then sort it and evaluate it before auctioning it to discount stores and authorized resellers. PALACCI: You`d be able to resell them at a profit because you`d be purchasing them at a real fraction of what the actual cost is. VALDES-DAPENA: But some returns never make it to a liquidator. PALACCI: Products ending up in landfills, customers really don`t really even think of that as part of the purchase process. VALDES-DAPENA: Every year returns produce an estimated 5 billion pounds of waste in landfills. GOLDBERG: It`s generally risky to remind consumers how potentially wasteful their consumerism is. So in general, retailers are hesitant to lean to   heavily into those kind of awareness campaigns. In an odd way, this is a partially self-correcting problem as the return problem gets bigger for all these retailers. There`s more financial   resources available to fix the problem so there`s a happy outcome where less of this stuff ends up in a landfill just because there`s more money to   be made by keeping it out of the landfill. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: For today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, the 13-year-old from Stillwater, Oklahoma who beat the game of Tetris into submission. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  WILLIS GIBSON: Oh my God. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: That`s Willis Gibson in total disbelief as he pulled off the nearly impossible beating, so to speak, the iconic video game Teris. It took him   about 38 minutes. The Tetris Titan is the first human gamer ever to reach level 157. The other player to reach at least this level was artificial   intelligence. After reaching this rare threshold, the game glitched and hit its kill screen. Here`s the Tetris company chairman explaining why. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) HENK RODGERS, TETRIS COMPANY CHAIRMAN: You can tell by, you know, this kid that broke the game, that he went into an area of -- of memory, of the   computer memory that the -- the programmer never envisioned they would end up in. And that`s why the program crashed. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Shout out to Willis for accomplishing the nearly unthinkable. It`s also time to shout out you, our first of the year. This one goes to Winner   Middle School in Winner, South Dakota. I see you warriors.  And this one goes to the Lions. The mighty lions of Brindlee Mountain High School in Guntersville, Alabama, rise up. Thank you for subscribing and   commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube channel. I`m headed to Houston, y`all. We`re going to be there for the college football championship game. And   we`re taking you to NASA Space Center to get a tour from an astronaut. So send us any questions you may have for them, I`m @coywire on social and we   are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-01-09
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Good morning, lovely people from Houston. I am here after what was an incredible College Football National Championship   Game. Last night between the Michigan Wolverines and the Washington Huskies. What a win for the Wolverines, their first since 1997 and Coach   Jim Harbaugh`s first ever championship victory after a busy night. I am still pumped to be here with you to start this Tuesday off right.  Let`s begin on Capitol hill where House and Senate leaders announced a spending deal for government funding for 2024, the nearly $1.59 trillion   government spending deal just covers top line spending numbers and does not include president Biden`s supplemental funding requests to support both   Ukraine and Israel in their respective wars and boost border security in the U.S. That plan has been stalled in Congress since last year.  Now, there are a lot of numbers involved, but what`s important right now is whether Congress has enough time to negotiate the details and find   agreement in time to avoid a partial government shutdown that`s looming later this month. And that`s no easy feat with current congressional   divisions and each party holding narrow majorities in both the House and Senate. Our CNN White House Correspondent Arlette Saenz has more on this   tenuous deal. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  President Joe Biden appeared to sign off on congressional leaders new funding agreements Sunday saying   in the statement that it moves the country one step closer to preventing a government shutdown, but real questions remain whether lawmakers will be   able to pass pieces of legislation before January 19th, which is that first fund deadline.  Now, this agreement was struck by House Speaker, Mike Johnson and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer. The two men agree on a 1.59 trillion top   line spending level. That includes about 886 billion for defense spending and $704 billion for non-defense spending.  There is also an additional $70 billion that could be allocated to non- defense spending. That was part of a side deal struck by President Biden and then House Speaker, Kevin McCarthy last spring. These overall figures   track very closely to the agreement that had been reached when they came to that debt limit deal last year, a deal that wrinkled a lot of House   Republicans and already there has been some opposition expressed to this latest deal that was struck by congressional leaders, the House Freedom   Caucus, expressing frustration with the figures that are included, that it does not include more spending cuts. They said in a post that it was,   quote, "a total failure."  There`s also real questions about whether lawmakers will be able to have the time to write these pieces of legislation, allocate all the funding and   actually get these bills passed with that first deadline coming up on January 19th and a second deadline on February 2nd. The supplemental   request is still up for debate right now up in the Senate and in the House.  Senate negotiators have been working to try to see if they can reach an agreement on border policy changes. That is something that people have been   stressing for before they pass aid for Israel and Ukraine. Now, these are two issues are running on separate tracks, but then really speaks to some   of the hurdles and the challenges facing lawmakers in the coming weeks, as they are trying to avert that first deadline by January 19th. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia.  Which school has the most college football national championships, Alabama, Yale, Notre Dame or Michigan? Answer is Yale, with a total of 18 championships, according to the NCAA. But their last title was way back in 1927.  All right, today is the first day of CES or the Consumer Electronic Show, the largest consumer tech conference of the year where companies get to   show off their new gadgets and technologies, right? Well, this year`s show is expected to be all about Artificial Intelligence.  Last year on CNN 10, we talked about how AI could impact things like jobs and elections. And now we`re going to look at what it could mean for   fashion. That`s right. A team of Hong Kong researchers are developing something called intelligent clothing. Imagine being able to change the   color of your shirt with a flick of a wrist. These researchers believe their textiles will help the fashion industry reduce the growing global   problem of clothing waste. CNN`s Kristie Lu Stout has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  This clothing is far from ordinary. It`s made from intelligent textiles. And with a simple hand gesture, you   can completely change the color of your outfit. It was developed by Hong Kong`s lab for artificial intelligence in design. JEANNE TAN, PROFESSOR, THE HONG KONG POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY:  We have used a polymer optical fiber with textile-based yarns. So when you touch it, you   can see that the hand field is just like any ordinary knitted fabric. So it actually is very soft and very tactile. LU STOUT:  The lab creates intelligent textiles using a type of AI, which trains computers to interpret information from images. The clothing is   embedded with a tiny camera that uses AI algorithms to generate different colors. The wearer can control the garment using hand signals, mobile   devices or remote control, feeling blue, just give a thumbs up while an OK sign produces an earthy green color. Clothing like this certainly makes   quite a fashion statement, but the designer says it has more meaningful applications. TAN:  It`s a form of wellbeing for a lot of people, people with dementia, people with learning challenges. So it actually encourages their wellbeing   and gives them a sense of calm and also a very easy way for them to have engagement and direct response. LU STOUT: And one researcher says intelligent textiles are more eco- friendly than wasteful fast fashion. MIFFY YU, RESEARCHER, THE HONG KONG POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY (through translator):  When you purchase a clothing item with a style, you like, you   can change the items, colors due to this innovative material. This way you won`t end up looking like other people who may buy all the colors of a   style they truly adore. When they happen to fall out of favor with that style, they often discard all their clothing resulting in waste. LU STOUT:  A high tech and greener weight to be fashionable. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a $3.99 cent Goodwill purchase turned into a hundred thousand dollars. That`s what happened when one   Virginia resident took a lucky trip to a thrift shop, finding a rare Italian piece of art, Desiree Montilla with CNN`s affiliate WWBT has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JESSICA VINCENT:  The piece that we found together --  DESIREE MONTILLA, WWBT REPORTER:  All across this shelf. VINCENT:  This piece I found in Florida at a -- a Palm Beach Goodwill. MONTILLA:  Jessica Vincent proudly displays her thrift store finds, a love growing as a child from her mom. VINCENT:  She loved to go to yard sales, tag sales, thrift shops, and just anywhere, where you could maybe get a bargain or find something old for a   good price. MONTILLA:  Back in June, Vincent and her partner were driving home from work on route one when they stopped by a Goodwill store in Hanover. VINCENT:  We went in and it was a little bit crowded. MONTILLA:  But among the crowd, this vase caught Vincent`s eye immediately. VINCENT:  As I got close to it, I could see that it was glass and that it was blown glass and that it was just beautiful. We go to the register and   the woman very, you know, she kind of just inspects it a little bit. She`s like $3.99. And I said, perfect. MONTILLA:  Vincent took her new treasure home, adding it to her collection and posted a picture of it on an art glass forum. VINCENT:  Pretty much right away, I got a lot of interest in people, you know, that`s a nice find. MONTILLA:  But one person recognized the markings telling Vincent this vase is made of high-end Murano Glass, a rare piece from Italy. VINCENT:  He knew who exactly what it -- who and what it was. And he said, that is a Carlo Scarpa Pennellate, and they are extremely rare. MONTILLA:  Months after phone calls and messages, Vincent put the vase up for auction selling for more than a hundred thousand dollars. VINCENT:  It`s like having a winning lottery ticket and not knowing the numbers. Because I just picked up something I loved, I didn`t pick it up   thinking, oh, this is going to be a really expensive item. I just picked it up thinking, oh, this is going to be beautiful on my shelf. I love it.  MONTILLA:  The money from this sale will help Vincent pay for renovations at the old farmhouse she recently purchased. VINCENT:  With my partner, Naza we just started sort of a training farm and we need more fencing. We need heat in the house. MONTILLA:  A trip to the thrift store changing Vincent`s life.  VINCENT:  It`s just very special, like I feel so fortunate. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, we come to the end of the show, the best part of the show, though, you. This shout out goes to Puerto Rico, Mrs. Ems High School   class in Baldwin School in Bayamon. We see you. And how about those lions Mr. Kabay`s Class from right here in Houston, Texas, rise up.  Now tomorrow`s #Your Word Wednesday. So follow me @coywire on Instagram, Snapchat, TikTok, put your unique vocabulary word in the comment section on   my most recent post and put your school, your mascot, maybe your teacher`s name in there. We`re going to work a winner into tomorrow`s show. Let`s get   it, y`all. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-01-10
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up lovely people and happy hump day, Wednesday is #YourWordWednesday. So be on the lookout to see if your vocab   word made it into today`s show. Let`s go. To the Middle East where U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is back in Israel for critical talks with top Israeli government officials. Blinken,   and the Biden administration are looking to keep their steady balancing act of keeping pressure on Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu`s government to   curb its offensive and reduced harm to civilians in Gaza while also giving support for Israel`s decision to continue its military operation on Hamas   terrorists. Blinken has now made five visits to Israel since the October 7th Hamas attack.  Another U.S. concern in the Middle East is the escalating tension with Iran as proxy groups target U.S. troops in Iraq and Syria and international   ships in the Red Sea. CNN`s Becky Anderson has more on Blinken`s latest trip as he looks to deescalate a possible wider war in the Middle East. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST: U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken shuttling around the region on his fourth trip as Israel`s war in Gaza escalates   tension around the Middle East. Jordan`s King Abdullah warning on Sunday of catastrophic consequences of the continuing war in Gaza.  From Jordan, Blinken went to Qatar, which has been instrumental in negotiating for the release of hostages held in Gaza. Qatar`s Prime   Minister saying the recent killing of the Senior Hamas official by Israel could impact hostage negotiations. MOHAMMED BIN ABDULRAHMAN AL-THANI, QATAR`S PRIME MINISTER AND MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS: Of course, having one of the senior leader of Hamas being   killed is something that can affect such a complicated process. Yet we are not giving up. We are moving forward. ANDERSON: Well, that killing of a senior Hamas official inside Beirut and Lebanon, just one of the flashpoints escalating tensions since Blinken`s   last visit. The Americans also killing Iran-back maliciously in Iraq, after an attack on a U.S. air base and the Iranian-back Houthis continue to   interrupt international shipping in the Red Sea last month. The U.S. announcing an international effort to deter Houthi attacks, but in this   region where I am very few countries willing to join that coalition to counter those threats. From Qatar, Blinken came here to Abu Dhabi meeting with the UAE President Mohammed bin Zayed. The trip also includes Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Israel, and   the West Bank where officials say there will be tough conversations. But if Blinken`s past visits are any indication and with no sign of an end to   Israel`s assault on Gaza, his presence may not be enough to calm the region. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Let`s go now to the powerful winter storm that moves fast across the Central and Eastern United States this week. The storm prediction center   said more than 40 million people were under severe storm watch Tuesday with warning spanning nearly every type of winter weather. Let`s go to Mandy   Gaither to hear a few tips on how to stay healthy and safe during all this wild winter weather. MANDY GAITHER, REPORTER: From frigid air to ice and snow, cold temperatures can take a toll on our bodies. DR. CHRISTOPHER BAZZOLI, EMERGENCY MEDICINE, CLEVELAND CLINIC: We shunt blood flow to the central kind of core of our body in an attempt to stay   warm. GAITHER: Dr. Christopher Bazzoli is an emergency physician at Cleveland Clinic. He says this time of year doctors not only see rises in E.R. visits   for respiratory viruses, as more people seek refuge inside from the cold, but also frostbite and hypothermia. Bazzoli says, what you wear can help   keep you safe, protect the parts of your body most vulnerable to frostbite like toes fingers, nose, and ears by dressing in warm, dry clothing. BAZZOLI: Lots of layers and especially the layers close to your skin. You want to have breathable fabrics if possible especially if you`re engaging   in an activity. GAITHER: Bazzoli says a sudden change in temperature and humidity can also irritate certain medical conditions like asthma. He says to make sure you   have enough medicine on hand, and if you use an electric medical device, make sure you have a way to back it up if the power goes out, he says, to   also be aware of how you heat your home. BAZZOLI: We don`t want to run any engine-operated equipment or gas or propane-powered heating devices indoors because of the risk of carbon   monoxide. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia. How many earth years does it take for Neptune, the eighth planet in our solar system to complete one full orbit around the   sun? 15 years, 29, 84, or 165? NASA says it takes 165 earth years for Neptune to complete a circuit around the sun. That`s a long time to wait between birthdays man.  All right, because we feel this show can be a bit much at times. We like to give you some space, space news, and we`re going to rock it out, not two   weeks into the New Year and we have already some stellar news, including the discovery of a taradiddle about the color of Neptune. Our Jeremy Roth   has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEREMY ROTH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Ah Neptune, why so blue? New evidence has revealed a colorful controversy involving a pair of comparable planets, and   that`s not all. This is a look at the planet`s Uranus and Neptune looking strikingly different as captured in 1989 by the Voyager 2 spacecraft. But a   recent study by Oxford University found that those original images had actually been stretched and enhanced resulting in a, quote, "two   artificially blue Neptune."  Now newly reprocessed, the images show the planet`s true colors, and that they actually look quite similar. Talk about a color correction. But that`s   not all, the study also used images of Uranus gathered over the years to figure out why the planet appears to change colors with the seasons. The   study says as the planet spins toward and away from the sun, a combo of varying gas and cloud coverage give way to a seemingly shifting hue. Now,   you know.  In other inner stellar news, we now have the most detailed look ever at Jupiter moon IO, courtesy of the closest ever fly by, by the spacecraft   Juno. Scientists say IO is the most volcanic body in the solar system and the new high-risk images given unprecedented look at the moon dappled with   craggy volcanic features. By the way, am I the only one that thinks IO looks like the lightsaber training or thingy from star wars? I am. Okey   dokey. Well that`s 10 seconds. We`ll never get back.  Finally, we leave you spaced out for the day of the life of Mars. O, technically it`s half a day, 12 hours on the red planet crammed into a   trippy ten second time lapse. It comes courtesy of curiosity. The Rover that`s been there for more than 4,000 days that look just like this. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, a perfect rescue by a e Ferocious Feline that saves a pup from a coyote attack. CNN`s Jeanne Moos   has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Six-year-old Oakley has a lovable face. She can do spins in exchange for a treat. But when she went   out to do her business in the backyard of her Edmond, Oklahoma home, no amount of spinning would`ve saved her from the coyote that pounced, if the   family cat hadn`t jumped in. Is she a tough cat? Like, is she like a street cat? I mean, is she? LANE DYER, DOG/CAT OWNER: Yeah, she`s -- she`s a, she`s a gangster. MOOS: Lane Dyer says Binx is a stray that he and his family take care of. DYER: Her and Oakley hit it off pretty good from the beginning. MOOS: So when the first of two coyotes grabbed Oakley, it was Binx to the rescue taking on the intruders, scaring them away though not before Oakley   suffered wounds that had blood. DYER: Spouting out of her chest, unfortunately. MOOS: But with stitches and a splint, Oakley recovered a little over a month later. DYER: And so she yawns over the story of Binx saving her. Coyotes have become such a danger to small dogs that one owner created the coyote vest. DYER: Done. MOOS: With spikes protruding from a Kevlar vest and even --  DYER: A set of coyote whiskers. MOOS: Nylon bristles that at least look intimidating, but who needs a coyote vest? DYER: I think she`s shown that she`s not afraid of much. MOOS: When the cat has your back. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: All right, thanks to Ms. Smith at Deering Middle School in West Warwick, Rhode Island for making us smarter today. Our #YourWordWednesday   winner with taradiddle, a noun, meaning a fib or petty lie. Well done.  Now, unfortunately, our visit to NASA Space Center here in Houston was pushed back due to weather delays for some of our crews. So I`m headed back   to studio.  But before I go, shout out time. This shout out goes to, the Judges in Mrs. Choyshin (ph) Class at Benjamin N. Cardozo High School in Bayside   neighborhood, Queens, New York. Class dismissed.  And this shout out, goes to Mr. Webster`s Class at Summitvue Middle School in Caldwell, Idaho. Thank you for spending part of your day with us. See   you tomorrow lovely people. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-01-11
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up superstar, happy Friday Eve. It`s Thursday, January 11th, rise up. Let`s make this a random thought Thursday.   If you are trying to fail and you succeed, does that mean you`re successful and not a failure?  Let`s start today with a quick update on the current state of the U.S. economy. As we begin 2024, the economy is at a crossroads and some analysts   believe this year will be a pivotal year with a strong influence on how the remainder of this decade will go.  At the end of 2023, we saw continued job growth in the labor market. Thanks in large part to consumer spending. Many thought the federal Reserve`s   decision to continuously increase interest rates in 2023, in order to help slow inflation would lead to job losses and spin the economy into a   recession. Well, that didn`t happen. We`re not out of the woods just yet, though.  The U.S. still faces possible challenges ahead. We`re seeing the least affordable housing market in the generation, both the Israel-Hamas war and   Russia-Ukraine war rage on. And the 2024 presidential election could certainly have an impact on the economy.  So as we consider all these potential breakthroughs and pitfalls, we might wonder just how difficult is it to define an economy as good or bad. It`s   not a simple task. Our Jon Sarlin breaks it down. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JON SARLIN, CNN DIGITAL PRODUCER: So there`s been a big debate right now, raging about the economy, whether it`s good, whether it`s bad. But what   even is a good economy? When pundits and economists talk about a good economy, they`re looking at a few key metrics, the unemployment rate, GDP   growth, wages, the stock market. So you can compare those numbers to years past. You can compare them to other similar economies around the world. On   both those fronts right now, the U.S. is doing well. KYLA SCANLON, FINANCIAL CONTENT CREATOR, FOUNDER, BREAD: The U.S. economy is doing great, relative to other economies, which makes this whole thing   kind of weirder. The United States economy is doing very, very well, but people within the United States are feeling much worse than those who are   in economies that are not doing as strong. SARLIN: So looking back to 2022, right, there was a huge debate going on about Jerome Powell and the Federal Reserve`s plan to raise interest rates,   to counteract inflation. The concern was that raising interest rates like they did could lead to widespread job losses in a possible recession. ROBERT REICH, FORMER LABOR SECRETARY UNDER PRESIDENT CLINTON: But if the Fed in trying to head off inflation continues to raise interest rates as   fast as it has, then the economy is going to go into recession. SARLIN: The Fed said they were aiming for the so-called, "soft landing," where you raise interest rates just enough to slow inflation, but avoid   those massive job losses. So what happened? So far, the landing seems like it was pretty soft. The inflation rate has been coming down and we haven`t   seen widespread job losses. But that is not to say that everything is good. SCANLON: So wages are growing. Sure. That`s great. But that doesn`t offset 40 years of stagnant wages. We have an affordability crisis. It`s almost   impossible to get a house in the United States. People are coming out the other side of the pandemic and they`re like, oh wow. Like, you know,   student loan payments can be paused. I`m able to -- I was able to kind of afford rent. I was able to have unemployment insurance. And then all of a   sudden, all that`s taken away, I think of course, people are going to be genuinely upset about that, genuinely frustrated. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: All right. Let`s turn now to social media, specifically tech giant Meta, which owns Instagram and Facebook, the company has announced new   settings for teen users. Our Medical Correspondent, Meg Tirrell was on CNN recently to discuss the impact of these changes. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MEG TIRRELL, CNN MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, it sounds like it is a pretty significant change. Meta has already had a lot of protections. They say in   place for teen users, but a lot of pressure has been mounting on them recently. And so what they`re doing is they`re adding even more protection.  So around search terms like self-harm and suicide and eating disorders, they`re going to hide even more kinds of content. Even among people that   teens follow on these platforms. They`re not going to show them if somebody posts about those things.  They`re also automatically setting teens in the most restrictive content settings. So right now it`s when you sign up, they put you in that setting.   Now, they`re going to do it for all teens automatically. And they`re also going to be sending notifications to prompt teens, to update their privacy   settings with a single tap. So all of this of course comes amid this backdrop that really started a couple years ago with the Frances Hogan,   Facebook papers coming out, which blew the whistle, including on things like young girls self-image. So that was one thing that was really focused   on there.  Of course, in the middle of last year, the Surgeon General put out an advisory about kids mental health and social media states have now sued   Meta alleging harms to children. And then a second whistleblower coming out at the end of last year, saying that Meta executives alleging that they   knew about these kinds of harms and weren`t acting on them. And so there`s also federal legislation pending. So these companies are under a lot of   pressure. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Let it go, let it go. Princess Elsa, Anna and Olaf, their pretty big deals in the Wire household. Thanks to my two young daughters. And right   now we`re going to head to China to a place where more than 30,000 people per day from around the world, flock to check out a frozen Wonderland.   Here`s CNN`s Laila Harrak with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LAILA HARRAK, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It`s a winter wonderland you won`t see anywhere else. The Chinese city of Harbin saw a record number of   visitors over the New Year holiday weekend during its annual Ice and Snow Festival. Well, this ice city features intricate sculptures and structures,   all glowing from within, all of course made entirely of ice. WANG TIFEI, TOURIST FROM DELIAN (through translator): It`s quite nice, and quite shocking. When I saw it for the first time, I thought they built it   very well, and the ice was very transparent. HARRAK (voice-over): Well, this year, officials say an average of about 30,000 people entered the park every day. That`s nearly double pre-pandemic   numbers. Well, the festivities have sold out every hotel. JAI XIA, TOURIST FROM WUHAN (through translator): Booking was pretty difficult. For booking hotels, we spent two to three days before we found a   suitable hotel. Tickets for Ice and Snow World were sold out online. So, I bought them on the second-hand website Xianyu. HARRAK (voice-over): The state media says this year`s festival covers 810,000 square meters, nearly nine million square feet, and features   250,000 cubic meters of ice. A rather fitting spectacle as temperatures over the New Year holiday dropped nearly minus 25 degrees Celsius or minus   13 degrees Fahrenheit. But, the cold hardly stopped those itching for fun after the last three years of holiday cheer were stifled by varying degrees   of pandemic restrictions. LONG PING, COLLEGE STUDENT (through translator): Because this is the first winter holiday since the pandemic was lifted, and everyone can`t hold back.   We`ve been sealed for several years. So, we want to go out and relax, to release some of the stressful feelings from the pandemic. HARRAK (voice-over): Harbin`s Ice Festival will shine bright until early March. In the meantime, the aptly nicknamed Ice City shares its ice, art, and animals with the visitors looking for something cool to do.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia. What is the largest cat that lives in north America?  Bobcat, Puma, Ocelot, or Jaguar?  If you said Jaguar, ding, ding, ding, you are correct. They once roam throughout the Southwestern U.S., but they`ve been on the endangered   species list since 1997.  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 gives us great pause. After five years of setting up trail cameras in the Arizona wilderness in hopes of spotting,   the elusive, Jaguar wildlife photographer, Jason Miller finally put the cat in catch. CNN Affiliate KGUN 9`s Ryan Fish has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RYAN FISH, KGUN 9 REPORTER (voice-over): A jaguar seemingly posing for the camera. This one has never been photographed in the U.S. before. JASON MILLER, WILDLIFE PHOTOGRAPHER: That`s mind blowing. I couldn`t believe it. I still can`t believe it, need on haystack. It`s a holy grail   for me.  FISH: It`s a moment Jason`s been chasing for years.  (On camera): Why a jaguar? Why was that your goal? MILLER: Well, when I got into trail cameras, it was a few years after that. I think it was El Jefe was in the Santa Rita who wouldn`t want to try to   get, you know, a Jaguar on camera. FISH: Jason named this one Cochise, Arizona Game and Fish says it`s only the eighth unique Jaguar spotted in the U.S. since the 90s. The first since   2016, the exotic big cats are known to move between Arizona and Sonora, Mexico. MARK HART, ARIZONA GAME & FISH: You can`t do anything to an endangered species. You can`t hunt it, obviously kill it or harass it in any way. You   really can`t track it. And that`s why the trail camera technology is so valuable. They`re being seen in their natural environment. Moving about   normally. Congratulations to Jason Miller. He worked really hard to get that, those images. And he`s provided us with the information we need to   protect it. FISH: Though, Jason`s been sharing his footage online long before this milestone. MILLER: You know, my wife and my daughter can`t wait, you know, to see what I get when I come home. There`s people out there that get the smile on   their face like I do when I check my cameras, especially, you know, people that can`t go out there and do it. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Well done, Jason, you`re a great roar model. Being dedicated to your goal and "fursisting" in your "fursuits." You must have been felines, so   proud. Hey, why did the Jaguar refuse to play poker anymore? Because all the other players were Cheetahs.  All right, shout out time now. This shout out is going to the Felines at Meadow Bridge High School in Meadow Bridge, West Virginia. We see your Wild   Cats.  And this shout out goes to the Warriors at Kapolei Middle School in O`ahu, Hawaii. Aloha. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-01-12
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up superstar. Happy Friday, Friyay. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, let`s rise up, finish this week strong.  We begin today with Boeing CEO, Dave Calhoun, acknowledging that his company made a mistake after an Alaska Airlines flight had to make an   emergency landing last week. That flight landed shortly after takeoff from Portland, Oregon after a door plug for the Boeing 737 Max 9, actually   detached and left a gaping hole on the side of the plane. Fortunately, none of the 177 passengers were seriously injured.  Safety inspections are currently taking place on the grounded aircraft, but as CNN`s Ivan Rodriguez tell us questions are swirling over what mistake   Boeing is actually admitting to. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DAVE CALHOUN, BOEING CEO:  We`re going to approach this, number one, acknowledging our mistake. IVAN RODRIGUEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Boeing CEO, Dave Calhoun, acknowledging the company`s mistake on Tuesday. Following Friday`s emergency landing   after a panel blew out in flight in the side of a Boeing 737 Max 9 aircraft. But according to top safety officials, it`s not clear what that   mistake is. JENNIFER HOMENDY, CHAIR, U.S. NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD:  He stated that mistakes were made and I`d like to understand what mistakes   he`s referring to. RODRIGUEZ:  Jennifer Homendy, Chair of the NTSB says it`s imperative to find out what went wrong and why. HOMENDY:  We know what broke. We need to understand how it broke. RODRIGUEZ:  A Boeing company source told CNN that Boeing believes the mistake is due to, quote, "The assembly that was built up through the   supply chain." This as the FAA grounded, most Boeing 737 Max 9 aircraft as officials investigate the cause of the detached door plug, an incident   passengers on that flight won`t soon forget. KELLY BARTLETT, PASSENGER ON ALASKA AIRLINES 1282:  It was just so scary when it happened, because you just hear that loud noise, and then the plane   filled with wind and the mask dropped and it was just something you don`t want to be experiencing on flight. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Now, let`s turn to the small democratic island country of Taiwan, which will hold presidential and parliamentary elections this week. It`s an   election that will be closely watched around the world, particularly by its communist neighbor, China, and even here in the United States.  Now, there are a ton of specific details to this crucial election. So let`s head straight to our correspondent in the region Will Ripley, who explains   why this matters to those outside Taiwan`s borders. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  On Saturday, Taiwan votes for a new president term limits mean the current president sign, when   has to step down after eight years in power, two presidential terms. There is a lot at stake in this election. It`s being closely watched by the   Chinese Communist Party in Beijing and by U.S. lawmakers in Washington. Beijing claims Taiwan as its own territory, despite having never controlled it. And it does not rule out the use of force to bring this island under   its fold at some point. Beijing, openly lows, the ruling party, the DPP, and they`re framing this election as a stark choice between war and peace,   prosperity and decline.  From Taiwan`s perspective, the election will decide whether this island will continue to prioritize its relationship with the U.S. or perhaps   recalibrate that relationship and choose to mend ties with China. Given that Taiwan is the largest source of tension between China and the U.S.,   which happens to be the Island`s main international backer and arms supplier.  How China responds to the result of this election will be a big test. Can Beijing and D.C. manage tensions or will they move closer to confrontation   or even conflict? Why does this matter beyond the confines of Taiwan? Well, the location, of course, it`s important strategically for both China and   the United States being right there on the first island chain.  Taiwan is the world`s number one manufacturer of semiconductors. Those priceless chips, that power all of our tech and the supply chain   disruptions for any cross-rate conflict would be catastrophic around the world. And from the U.S. perspective, Taiwan is a democracy and this   Island`s leaders have said that this election and this overall clash between China, the U.S. and Taiwan over democracy versus authoritarianism   could actually define the future of the free world. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia.  In what year did scientists first theorize that burning fossil fuels would raise the Earth`s average temperature? 1855, 1896, 1930 or 1964? If you said 1896, put your hands up. According to scientific American that`s when a Swedish scientist first argued that burning fossil fuels such   as coal could add carbon dioxide to the atmosphere leading to a rise in Earth`s average temperature. 2023 was the hottest year on record with the latest data showing that global warming hit 1.48 degrees Celsius. We are now extremely close to the   warming limit that nearly 200 countries sought to avoid when the Paris agreement was signed in 2015.  Our Bill Weir explains what this latest   report means. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT:  2023 has a lot of people felt it around the world, just was undeniable. Not only did it break previous   records, the hottest year ever in 2016, shattered them, obliterated them. Most Northern latitudes, you can see on the map there, up in Canada, there   are good three and four degrees warming, warming much faster than the rest of the world. So it is not even if we look at the global surface   temperatures going back 57 years, it goes back to 1967. My birth year, this is my life and temperature graphs here. And 2023, you can see how that bar   on the right is so much higher than anywhere else.  Usually these records are broken by just hundreds of a degree because you`re talking about so much area, so much mass, so much time, but `23 was,   oh, deadly special in so many ways. And then as we look at the -- the, through the year as the temperatures bounced around that 1.5 line there, we   dipped above in March came back down. But as you can see the temperatures around the world hit that 1.5 threshold and stayed there for most of the   back end of the year. Even going above two degrees of global warming for a couple of days in November, that has never happened before for the first   time ever. You can lay 2023`s calendar over a calendar of `19 or 1850 to 1900. And every day was a full degree warmer than those before. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, let`s end this show on a high note, today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a singing surgeon named Aicha N`doye, singing to her   patients in France because she says a soothing voice can help soothe the mind. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  At this hospital in the French city of Perdeaux, patients experience in the operating room may not be typical. Surgeon Aicha   N`doye suits patients with singing. She started doing it as an intern and a moment of desperation. AICHA N`DOYE, OBSTETRIC GYNECOLOGIST (through translation):  We couldn`t get a patient to go to sleep, because she was totally agitated and wouldn`t   let herself be perfused. And so, as I was washing my hands, I thought maybe I`d try something. The last option we had was for me to sing. Wel, I sand   to the patient, which kind of captured her attention, so I was able to infuse her at the same time and put her to sleep. And since then, I`ve made   it an integral part of my work.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Aicha says that she hopes to inspire other surgeons to try her technique as there are many benefits for both patients and doctors. N`DOYE (through translation):  When you fall asleep stressed, you consume more anesthetics. And as a result, with the singing they fall asleep more   calmly, and consume fewer "drugs." So it`s very beneficial for them.  What`s more, the surgeons and anesthesiologists sometimes don`t get on very well, but now we get on very well when we work together, so frankly it`s   great, it`s a very, very good atmosphere. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Wow, that was beautiful from singing to patience, to singing some praises, a special shout out today to a school in a city, holding a special   place in my heart, Buffalo, New York. I lived and played there for six of my nine years in the NFL. Look at that face and look at that hair, baby.   The Bills are your AFC East champs starting their playoff run this weekend. So we are sending a whole lot of love and positive vibes to Buffalo, New   York, especially to City Honors School, rise up. We see you Max and Ms. Watalski (ph). And thank you, principal, Dr. Kresse.  And this shout out goes too Syracuse-Dunbar-Avoca Middle School in Syracuse, Nebraska, keep rocking it Rockets.  All right, I`ll be seeing you on Tuesday because of the Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday weekend. So go on out and make someone smile this weekend.   Remember you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. And let go, Buffalo. END 

Date: 2024-01-16
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello sunshine. It`s Tuesday, January 16th. Let`s make this a terrific teacher Tuesday. Shout out to all those inspiring,   uplifting and informing us. Go on and give a dap handshake or high five. Let them know, we see you.  Welcome to the best 10 minutes in news, where I give you the what, letting you decide what to think. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10.  We start this week with a somber update and milestone regarding the ongoing war in the Middle East. It`s been 100 days since Hamas militants killed   around 1200 people and took more than 200 people hostage. Israel subsequently began a military offensive into the Gaza Strip. And according   to the Hamas-run health ministry, more than 24,000 people in the region have been killed as a result. It`s important to note that CNN cannot   independently confirm those numbers due to the difficulty of reporting from the war zone.  Just last week, Israel defended itself from accusations of genocide in the United Nation`s court. And as Israel continues, its military action there`s   mounting concern, the conflict could spread across the region. There`s a lot to unpack here. So let`s turn to CNN`s Jeremy Diamond, who helps   explain the latest in this conflict? (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, 100 days after the October 7 terrorist attacks that sparked this Israel-Hamas war, Israel is facing   mounting international pressure as the death toll in Gaza reaches nearly 24,000 people killed, a majority of those women and children. But amid that international pressure, the Israeli prime minister is defiant, for his part. He says, nobody will stop us from continuing to   carry out this war from destroying Hamas and securing the release of those more than 100 hostages still held hostage in the Gaza Strip, the Israeli   prime minister promising total victory and warning that this war will take many more months. But it`s clear, amid those defiant comments, that there are still concerns that this war between Israel and Hamas could erupt into a broader regional   war. That`s as we look to the South in Yemen. Houthi rebels there are vowing to continue their attacks on that critical shipping lane in the Red   Sea, following strikes by the United States and the United Kingdom, aimed directly at Houthi capabilities in Yemeni. If you look to the North at the Israel-Lebanese border, there are continuing cross-border clashes between the Israeli military and Hezbollah.   An anti-tank missile fired by Hezbollah hitting a residential home in Northern Israel, killing a 76-year-old woman and her 40-year-old son. The Israeli military, meanwhile, firing strikes in Southern Lebanon at Hezbollah targets. Hassan Nasrallah, the head of Hezbollah, says that only   a ceasefire in Gaza could see the end of those cross-border clashes. Meanwhile, in Israel, as we hit this hundred-day mark, many people across the country are marking 100 days of captivity for those more than 100   hostages who still remain in captivity, held by Hamas in the Gaza Strip. Tens of thousands of people flocking to what`s become known as Hostages Plaza in Tel Aviv, where a 24-hour rally was held to mark those hundred   days of captivity. Messages recorded by leaders across the world flowing in during that ceremony. And as people mark those hundred days of captivity, we`re now learning that negotiators have struck a deal to allow for the entry of medication to the   Gaza Strip for some of those 40 hostages who are being held hostage who the Israeli government believes are in need of medication. That medicine will be coming from Qatar, delivered to Egyptian officials, and then to members of the Palestinian Ministry of Health in Gaza. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: More international news now from one of the oldest monarchies in the world, thousands gathered in the Danish Capital of Copenhagen on Sunday to   celebrate their new king, Frederik X. His mother Queen Margrethe II decided to step down, advocating the throne after 52 years. She was Europe`s   longest reigning Monarch since the new era for Denmark. For King Frederik X and his wife, the new queen who now lays claim to a historic first. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR AND REPORTER: The new queen of Denmark is actually from a country, almost 9,000 miles away. Queen Mary is the first ever   Australian-born queen of any monarchy in history. Her husband, King Frederik X became king of Denmark on Sunday after his mother, Queen   Margrethe II officially left the throne.  Margrethe`s abdication announcement came during her annual New Year`s message and was a shock to many. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We`re just like what, cancel New Year`s eve. FOSTER: But it also meant that a new page in the fairy tale like romance between the now King and Queen of Denmark was about to be written. It all   started over two decades ago in an unusual spot. This pub in Sydney, she was an Australian sales executive and he was in town for the 2000 Olympics.   And the story goes that at first she didn`t know he was a Prince. Four years later, the couple got married in a lavish ceremony at Copenhagen   cathedral, and she became the crown princess. Denmark since embraced Mary, who`s been praised for her poise and commitment to social causes. QUEEN MARGRETHE II: I feel very confident in her and I think we`ve got a -- a -- a very good relationship indeed. FOSTER: Last year, rumors of an alleged romance between the then Prince Frederik and actress Genoveva Casanova rocks the Royal family. Casanova   denied the claims and the Royal house never commented. Now, more than two decades after they met the King and Queen are stepping into their new role.   And although Danish Royals have a limited power under the country`s constitution, they will play an important ambassadorial role. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia. Before Queen Margrethe II, when was the last time a Monarch advocated the throne in Denmark? 52 years ago, 160 years, 452 years, or 878 years ago? If you said 878, ding, ding, ding, you are correct. The only other Danish Monarch to voluntarily step down was King Eric III in the year 1146 entered   to monastery. Let`s turn now to the United States where we`re in the heart of the winter season. And mother nature is in full force pushing an Arctic blast across   the country. 41 states started the week with weather advisories watches or warnings, and at least four declared emergencies because of the frigid   temperatures.  Get this, South Dakota is expected to endure wind chills as low as minus 45 degrees Fahrenheit. That can cause frostbite in as little as five minutes.   But the cold weather is also affecting southern states. That region will see impactful, snow and ice for the first time this winter. And this frigid   feel will not go away as more than 75% of the U.S. population will experience temperatures below freezing for the rest of the week.  Now, when it`s colder than a polar bear`s toenails outside, it can be annoying, even downright painful for a lot of us. But there are plenty of   adrenaline junkies out there who embrace the burr, maybe doing a polar bear plunge into icy waters sometimes for char, sometimes just for fun. But   nobody knows how to embrace a polar bear plunge better than actual polar bears. Check this out. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Forget the guy in the bear suit, the shivering humans and their polar bear plunge. This is the real   thing. Two polar bear twins born at the Toledo Ohio Zoo once fascinated by their own feet are now performing feats of diving skill. With young fans,   urging them on. MICHAEL FRUSHOUR, CURATOR OF MAMMALS, TOLEDO ZOO: The kids think they`re involved in or were excited to be telling him to jump off the ledge there.   But he`s -- he`s going to do it anyway. And it just so happens. He loves doing it in front of the -- in front of the class. MOOS: Kallik and Kallu, indigenous names, meaning lightning and thunder went from accidentally falling into the water to learning to swim using mom   as a raft to diving in the shallow pool. And now at the age of a year and two months doing the high dive off the cliff, even throwing a plastic toy   off the ledge and diving after it. FRUSHOUR: They love it. They can`t get enough of it and they`ll come up right up to the glass. MOOS: Something we can all get behind. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Some fun polar bear facts for you. They`re good at racing cars, because they`re always in pole position. They keep their money in snow   banks. The hats they wear are called ice caps, snow cap, and they catch their food with their "bear hands."  All right, we`ve got more important situations on our hands. Shout out time. This shout out goes to Scituate, Rhode Island Scituate High School,   go Spartans, rise up. And this shoutout goes to, give me a minute, just a minute. Uh, yes. Oh yeah. The minute man at T.H. Bell Junior High in Ogden,   Utah. You rock. Now don`t forget, tomorrow is #YourWordWednesday. Follow me @coywire on Instagram, Snapchat, TikTok. Put your unique vocabulary word in the comment   section of my most recent post with your school, your teacher`s name, your mascot, and we`re going to choose one fun winner to work into tomorrow`s   show. Let`s go. See you tomorrow superstar. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-01-17
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. It`s Wednesday, January 17th. Thank you for all the, "Your Word Wednesday" submission. Stay tuned   to see if your word helped us write today`s show. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. Today`s headline is from Iowa were former president Donald Trump celebrated a landslide win in the state`s caucuses. The first Republican presidential   nominating contest of the election year. CNN`s Julia Benbrook explains why these results indicate Donald Trump is in a strong position to be the   Republican nominee for president once again in 2024. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DONALD TRUMP, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  So we`re going to put America first. We`re going to make America great again. Again, Iowa, we   love you. JULIA BENBROOK, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  The results from the Iowa caucuses weren`t surprising, as former president Donald Trump held a commanding lead   in the polls coming into Monday night. Trump made it clear to his supporters that he didn`t just want to win. He wanted to win big, urging   Iowans to show up for him, no matter the weather. TRUMP:  You can`t sit home. If you`re sick as a dog, you say "Darling, I got to make it." Even if you vote and then pass away, it`s worth it,   remember. BENBROOK:  Meanwhile, Florida, Governor Ron DeSantis and former U.N. Ambassador, Nikki Haley battled it out in the race for second place.   DeSantis went all in on Iowa, visiting all 99 counties and receiving a rare endorsement from the state`s governor. DeSantis who grabbed the second-  place finish is promising his voters. He will continue to fight. RON DESANTIS, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  In spite of all of that, that they threw at us. Everyone against us. We`ve got our ticket punched   out of Iowa. BENBROOK:  Haley finishing in third in the Hawkeye State has been on an upward trajectory in New Hampshire where voters head to the polls next   week. NIKKI HALEY, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  I love you Iowa, but we`re onto New Hampshire. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Now, let`s take a step back to get a better sense of where we are in this process of finding the next U.S. President. Iowa has been the first   state to vote for a presidential nominee since the 1970s. And despite the focus on the Republican side this week, Democrats are also participating in   nominating their party`s next presidential candidate. Their votes are being mailed in though, and we won`t have the results until March to comply with   changes to the party`s process. The Democratic Party chooses to give several other states a chance to announce their outcomes before Iowa`s. The   next step in this nominating process is the New Hampshire primary where candidates will try to gain more momentum.  These primaries and caucuses all lead up to this summer`s Republican and Democratic conventions where parties finalize their nominee for the general   election, which takes place November 5th. That is when voters will finally choose the next American president.  Let`s take another look at the candidates. After the Iowa caucuses, only three contenders remain for the Republican nomination, former president   Donald Trump, the clear front runner, U.S. military veteran and current Governor of Florida, Ron DeSantis, and Nikki Haley, a former U.N.   Ambassador and Governor of South Carolina.  As for the Democrats, it`s current president, Joe Biden, self-help author Marianne Williamson and businessmen, and current Minnesota Congressman Dean   Phillips. There are three notable independent bids as well. Environmental Lawyer and Author Robert F. Kennedy, nephew of former President John F.   Kennedy, Environmental Activist, Jill Stein, and Progressive Activist and Harvard Professor Cornel West.   Long way to go in this election process. And we will be keeping you up to date on all the action right here on CNN 10. Ten second trivia. Which country has the most volcanoes in the world? Japan, United States, Indonesia, or Iceland? According to the Smithsonian Institute, the U.S. leads the world with more than 160 volcanoes, though, less than 30 have erupted in the last 20 years.  Authorities in Iceland ordered residents in a fishing town, in the Southwestern part of the country to leave their homes because of an   erupting volcano. This is the second time in a month that molten lava has destroyed parts of nearby towns. Some are worried that the Iceland they   know and love will never be the same. Here`s our Barbie Latza Nadeau with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BARBIE LATZA NADEAU, CNN CONTRIBUTOR:  The earth is on fire in Iceland. Again for the second time in a month, Iceland`s Fagradalsfjall volcano is   threatening the small fishing village of Grindavik in the Southwest of the country. A webcam set up by Iceland`s Public Broadcaster, RUV showed a   stream of lava flowing into Grindavik with the burning buildings, just meters away from houses.  So far, several homes have been consumed by scorching lava flowing out of two new fissures from the latest eruption forcing national police to order   evacuations.  JON GAUTI DAGBJARTSSON, EVACUATED GRINDAVIK RESIDENT:  It`s basically as bad as can possibly get. NADEAU:  Jon Gauti is one of the town`s 4,000 residents. Like most he fears, he won`t be able to return home. DAGBJARTSSON:  I am born in this town. I actually live in the house that I`m born in. And it`s kind of -- it`s -- it`s a tough -- it`s a tough   thought to think that, that this town might be over. NADEAU:  After the volcano last erupted on December 18th, authorities built walls to divert the lava from the town. So far, the walls are holding the   lava back from all, but the houses on the outskirts of town. Authorities have no idea how long mother nature`s fury will last or how much more   damage this tiny village will endure. Barbie Latza Nadeau, CNN. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, you and your goals, whether you set a new year`s resolution that you`re grinding on or one that`s gone   a bit a skew, or maybe you`re honing in on a plan to achieve something right now. Katy Milkman, author of "How to Change" gives us a few science   based tips to help us out, so we can all be successful and conjubilant. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KATY MILKMAN, COFOUNDER, BEHAVIOR CHANGE FOR GOOD INITIATIVE:  Whether you`re hoping to get in shape or learn a new skill or save more for   retirement, or just get to bed on time. Science has proven that there are tools that can really help you immensely as you pursue those goals.  There are some moments that are much more motivating than others for starting something new. And of course the most famous of those is New   Year`s. Some other dates include the start of a new week. So every Monday is a little miniature fresh start. The beginning of spring, the celebration   of a birthday is a fresh start. All of those fresh start moments give us this optimism about what we are capable of.  So most of us will choose a goal that`s very abstract and long-term, like I want to get in shape, or I want to meditate more regularly.  The next thing you need to do is actually break that down and figure out what`s the bite size piece you can do this week. And when and where are you   going to be able to execute on that?  So say, I decide that my goal is going to be to learn Spanish, and I`m going to try to learn it on "Duolingo." Well, now I need to think about,   when am I going to practice? And how many hours do I want to practice a week?  Research shows that when we think about how much time we`re going to commit each week to a goal, instead of thinking about how much time we`re going to   commit over the course of a year, we`re roughly 10% more likely to actually make progress each week.  Research shows that if we don`t find it fun to pursue our goals, we won`t persist. We should look for a way to make it enjoyable. Maybe by pairing it   with something else that we love, or even just pursuing it differently, going to a Zumba class instead of getting on a punishing workout machine.  And it`s important if the people around you also believe in you and boost your confidence rather than putting you down, that makes goal pursuit more   fun.  When you want to quit something, though, it`s really different. In this case, you actually want to make it more costly to engage in whatever   behavior it is, that`s bad for you. And so there`s a tool that is very counterintuitive called a "commitment device" that you can use, which means   basically putting money on the line or forfeiting something else you value if you fail to achieve your goal. There are websites like stickk.com and beeminder.com. They allow you to put money on the line and if you fail, you`re going to owe money to a   charitable organization of your choice. Now, you`ve increased the price of your vice enough that you may actually make the decision that`s in your   long-term best interest at a higher rate. In fact, science shows, this is very effective. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, superstars, in case you missed all the celebrations, #YourWordWednesday, today was conjubilant , an adjective, which means   shouting together with joy. Thanks to Mrs. Wilkinson at Midland Middle School in Sparland, Illinois. We see you, Tess. Well done. Thanks to all of   you for some outstanding submissions and for helping to boost our vocab today.  Now, it is shout out time. This shoutout goes to, the State of the Caucuses this week, Lewis Central High School in Council Bluffs, Iowa. Go Titans,   rise up. And this shout out goes to, Heber Springs High School in the City of Heber Springs, Arkansas, keeping in roaring Panthers.  Thanks to all of you for subscribing and commenting on our YouTube channel. We`ll see you tomorrow, lovely people. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-01-18
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, lovely people. It`s Thursday, January 18th. Welcome to the best 10 minutes in news, where I tell you the, "what"   letting you decide what to think. Happy Friday Eve. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10.  We start today by heading to the mountain town of Davos in Switzerland. It`s known for its ski resorts and the World Economic Forum, which is   happening this week. It`s an annual meeting of business, political, and academic leaders. More than 60 heads of state are meeting in Davos,   including Presidents of Ukraine and Israel. The U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Prime Minister of China, Li Qiang, Microsoft CEO Satya   Nadella, and Sam Altman of OpenAI are attending as well, among many other business executives.  So, what`s the goal of the World Economic Forum? Davos gives space for all of these powerful people from different countries and industries to meet in   formal and informal ways to share ideas and brainstorm solutions to the world`s biggest problems. What`s on the agenda? Global conflict, including   tensions between China and Taiwan, the wars in Ukraine and the Middle East. The world leaders are also expected to talk about climate catastrophes and   pivotal elections happening this year in several major countries, including the U.S., India, and Mexico. Among other big topics are how artificial   intelligence will impact jobs, and the pandemic`s impact on the world economy that`s still in recovery.  CNN`s Richard Quest is in Davos and he`s found a pretty unusual way to explain the goals and ambitions of the event and the basics of the global   economy. He`s doing it through the sport of curling. Take a look. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RICHARD QUEST, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It is a scene of Alpyn Beauty, the landscapes of winter, the Davos, the peaks, the visitors, the snow. The   World Economic Forum`s theme this year, "Rebuilding Trust," where it aims to hit the target. That`s also the philosophy of the Davos Curling Club.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So when the skip says, here, you make the curl like that. QUEST: So that`s why it`s called curling, because you curled.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It`s curls. Yes.  QUEST: Think of these stones as being the economy, various governments, prime ministers, presidents, finance ministers, they set their course and   send it on its way.  So many factors threatened to sweep the economy. For starters, interest rates, central bankers have hiked them to the point where economies have   slowed down to kill inflation. And now they`re trying to hit that target 2% without them knocking themselves off. Global growth is expected to slow   this year. I hope it`s not going to spiral it all down. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Go. QUEST: That did nothing, that did nothing. Because I wasn`t able to sweep enough out the way. And so the economy came to a stop.  (On camera): It is also the year of elections, political candidates charting their collision course for victory, hoping to knock rivals off the   stage.  AI is like a curling stone. Heavy, once set free may be difficult to control. And even if we do the right things, well, accidents can still   happen. It`s unbelievable.  The world of curling can teach us much about today`s global economy, having raised interest rates and then still trying to keep things going without   coming to a complete stop. And then when all set and done in a competitive environment, you want to knock your competitors to one side, but you don`t   want to completely ruin the game. Richard Quest, CNN Davos. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia. What year was the latest space mission in which humans successfully landed on the moon?  1959, 1969, 1972 or 1970? If you said 1972, you are correct. That was the last time humans set foot on the moon during the final lunar landing mission in NASA`s Apollo   program, Apollo 17. Last week, the U.S. launched its first Lunar Lander mission in more than 50 years, there was no crew on this craft, but the moonshot, this time was not   successful due to a critical fuel leak, the Peregrine spacecraft had to turn back from the vicinity of the moon and head back towards earth.  Astrobotic, the company that built the Peregrine Lander under a 108 million contract with NASA said the spacecraft was about 218,000 miles from the   earth. There were options to crash land the Peregrine on the moon or leave it to the Cosmos. But Astrobotic decided that the safest option would be to   turn the spacecraft back and allow it to smash into the thick atmosphere of the earth at high speeds. If the Peregrine`s mission had been successful,   it might have become the first U.S. spacecraft to land on the moon since Apollo 17.  All right, we possibly have some good news for air travelers. The airline industry is set to have its first quote, "normal year since the pandemic.   Airfare is at a 15-year low and more passengers are now ditching the economy seats and upgrading to more premium seating arrangements, did you   know?  CNN has been speaking with a travel expert, who`s giving predictions on what`s next for airlines and passengers. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KATY NASTRO, TRAVEL EXPERT & SPOKESPERSON, GOING.COM: If I had to pick one word to describe travel in 2024, I`m going to have to say, normal.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: After years of pandemic related disruptions, 2024 is set to be the first full year of relative normalcy for air travel since the end   of the pandemic was declared last year. So we asked travel expert, Katy Nastro, to share her crystal ball with us. NASTRO: Airfare is 12% lower than it was a year ago. It`s almost 25% lower than it was in 2019. Airfare hasn`t been this cheap since 2009. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: While inflation might have consumers worried about price increases at the grocery store, Nastro doesn`t expect airfare to skyrocket   like it has in recent more volatile years when the pandemic may travel unpredictable. NASTRO: Without these sort of spikes that we saw over the last two years, we`re likely to see 2024 mirror those years in 2019, 2018. Cheap flights   are so available. And the amount of people looking and wanting to travel is not going to go down, it`s likely to go up. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Of course not all airlines survive the pandemic. And some airlines amidst continuing financial struggles, proposed mergers last   year to make their businesses more competitive, they claim. But Nastro warns the opposite could be true for travelers. NASTRO: The single biggest factor for why we see cheap flights is competition. So even if you never fly on a budget carrier like a Spirit, we   want those carriers in the mix because it actually places downward pressure on the legacy carriers like a Delta, an American in United. And so   basically when we hear of mergers between airlines, that`s the first thing that comes to mind, less competition. And that means less availability of   cheap flights for consumers. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is proof that some ambitious travel plans don`t even need a plane ticket. Briana DeSanctis, a hiker from   new England has decided to hike the entire United States. Her goal is to be the first woman to complete the American discovery trail. It spans more   than 6,800 miles of hiking and biking route. On her journey, Briana said she encountered wild animals. She hiked through a temperature drop at one point where it went from 22 degrees to just two   degrees in a 40-minute time span. She said, people don`t really get outside that much these days. So she`s determined to push herself in hopes of   inspiring others.  I hope some of you out there are finding a path that might inspire others along the way. Remember you never know when or how or for whom, but you   will be the light that someone needs someday. So shine bright baby.  It`s shout out time now. Thanks to all of you, who`ve subscribed on our CNN 10 YouTube channel. We`re creep up on a million subscribers and that`s when   I`ll have to do a challenge set forth by one of you. dunk tank, polar plunge in the lake. What will it be?  All right. This shout out goes to Blackmon Road Middle School in Columbus, Georgia, rise up. Keep flying high, Eagles. And this shout out goes to Flasher High School in the City of Flasher, North Dakota, rrr. We see you Bulldogs. See you tomorrow, lovely people.   I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-01-19
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up superstar. It`s Friday, Friyay. Great job of taking this week by storm grinding and shining, maybe even having to   power through some tough moments, but rise up.  Here we go. Welcome to the best 10 minutes in news. Um, Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And come on with me as we zip through an overview of some of the   latest news headlines.  Another round of snow and cold weather is expected to hit parts of the U.S. This, after a series of winter storms has already killed at least 40 people   across nine states since last week, potentially dangerous wind chills are also expected in the central U.S. once again. So please stay warm, stay   covered, and try to avoid any risk of frostbite and/or hypothermia. Hypothermia occurs when your body loses heat faster than it can produce   heat, normal body temperatures around 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit, but hypothermia sets in when your body temp falls below 95. And the South Asian nation of Pakistan, the fifth most populated nation in the world carried out a series of military strikes on what it said were   separatist militant hideouts inside Iran. The attack came a day after Iran said it used precision missile and drone strikes to destroy two bases of   another militant group in Pakistani territory. According to Reuters, both countries reported that civilians including children were killed during the   attacks. Reuters obtained this eyewitness video from Iran, with villagers standing among damaged buildings and says the location matches scenes of the   aftermath shown on Iranian TV.  Earlier this week, people gathered across Islamabad, the capital of Pakistan to protest Iran`s cross border strike. Hostilities between   Pakistan and Iran aren`t new, but Reuters cause the exchange of attacks this week, the highest profile cross border intrusion in recent years, this   along with all of the other tension in the Middle East is raising great concern of a growing wider conflict. CNN`s Paula Hancocks is here to give   us a quick recap of all that`s happened and explain Iran`s web light connection to the conflict in the Middle East. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  To understand the very real fears of a wider conflict in the Middle East, it`s useful to take a closer look at the   axes of resistance, the proxies and allies of Iran stretching from the red sea to the Mediterranean.  This latest regional tension was sparked by the Hamas attacks on Israel on October 7th and Israel subsequent war in Gaza. The U.S. says Hamas is   funded, equipped, and sometimes trained by Iran. Although Tehran claims it was not involved in the October 7th attack, then Iran`s other proxies got   involved. October 8th, Hezbollah in Lebanon, one of the most powerful forces in the region boasting some 100,000 fighters and links with the Lebanese   government fired missiles across the border into Northern Israel, which Israel`s military responded to this raised fears of a wider conflict.  Next, on the 19th of October, the Houthis rebels in Yemen launched missiles against Israel before moving their focus to commercial vessels in the Red   Sea causing global chaos in the shipping industry. U.S. and U.K. strikes against targets in Yemen have not stopped these continued attacks. In Iraq, there are a number of Iran-backed militia groups that are increasingly active since the war in Gaza targeting U.S. troops in the   country on a near daily basis, operating under umbrella group, the Islamic resistance in Iraq. They`re united in ideology, but splinted in operations,   making them more challenging to target.  There is little to suggest that Iran wants direct conflict with Israel or the United States at this point, but the sheer number and reach of its   proxies, engaging the U.S. and its allies, inevitably sparks fears of an unintentional wider conflict. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia.  What is the longest river in the world, according to the Guinness World Records? The Missouri, The Nile, The Amazon, The Yangtze. Some scientists debate this, but Guinness, Britannica, and U.S. government say The Nile is the longest river in the world, some 4,160 miles long.  If you could simply use the palm of your hand to pay for things, whether it`s groceries or hopping on a subway or bus, or even entering buildings   like an office or gym, would you do it? Well, a Chinese tech giant Tencent has launched a new biometric payment system designed to allow you to leave   your keys, cash and credit cards at home. Our Marc Stewart has more from Beijing. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MARC STEWART, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  In a busy Beijing Metro station, time is of the assets and here on the dashing airport express   line, passengers can ditch their smartphones instead paying for their ride like this. With the palm of their hand, this new biometric payment system   is part of a trial by Chinese tech giant Tencent for its ways and pay users. The digital wallet and payment service is a sister app of WeChat and   users must opt in to use the contactless service.  Infrared cameras analyze both a user`s palm print and a unique pattern of veins under their skin. Within seconds, the user is identified and a   payment is made. GUO RIZEN, VICE GENERAL MANAGER, WEIXIN PAY INDUSTRY APPLICATION (through translator):  We`re hoping that palm payments can save people to trouble of   carrying physical items like cards and keys so that our lives become more convenient. STEWART:  Here at Tencent headquarters in the Southern Chinese city of Shenzhen, the technology is used across the building from the cafeteria to   the gym. Guo Rizen oversees the lab that began developing this technology in 2019. He says the double verification of palm prince and veins helps prevent   identity theft. RIZEN:  With face scanning technology, people can look a lot like each other like twins, but with palm payments, even brothers and sisters who   look alike have unique palm prints and veins. STEWART:  Tencent began rolling out this tech in early 2023. It`s now being tested in convenience stores at Shenzhen University and in local gyms. The   co-founder of this gym chain says nearly 2000 members have registered to use the system. XIA JINGLONG, CO-FOUNDER OF SUPERMONKEY (through translator):  Before this, our users needed to enter a password to open the door and use their   smartphone to check in and make purchases. Now, they can just use their palm. STEWART:  Biometric payment systems are nothing new from fingerprint to facial recognition. These services have been around for years, including   palm scanning technology. In 2020, Amazon began rolling out this palm payment service at whole food supermarkets in the U.S., but concerns have   been raised about biometric payment systems around data security and privacy, both in China and abroad. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  When you amass huge amounts of people`s most sensitive information, their biometric data, you`re creating a kind of honey pot,   which cyber criminals, uh, kind of lick their lips about and really want to access. STEWART:  Tencent says security and privacy is their number one priority. Users` biometric data is stored on a cloud and is encrypted for security.   Tencent is working to improve this service and hopes to expand its reach. But the future of this tech lays firmly in the hands of the public. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, a whole new meaning to great white shark when Iowa city got loads of snow last week, artist Carlos   Maldonado, well, he decided to make the most of the white stuff with his family creating this 20-foot-long great white shark. Mr. Carlos Maldonado   said that his kids originally wanted just a snowman, but six hours later, they had jaws.  Now, if they get more snow then Maldonado, say their next project is an octopus or a banana split. That`s one fantastic piece of art, snow joke, a   shark that doesn`t attack. Still give frostbite, though.  All right, you already know what time it is, shout out time. Today, we`re sending a whole bunch of love to the Wranglers in Mrs. Allen`s class at   Harmony Middle School in Harmony, Florida, rise up. And this shout out goes to The Columbus School in Medellin, Columbia, go Tigers.  Let`s go out and make this world a bit of a better place. Shall we? Even if it`s just making someone smile today. Remember you are more powerful than   you know. I`m Coy Wire. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2024-01-22
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, sunshine. Hope you have an awesome weekend. Here`s a quick thought to start your Monday motivation off right. While you   are chasing your dreams and your goals and your happiness stop being concerned about people who aren`t concerned about. You will the haters and   doubters be around no doubt, but if you put those blinders on and stay focused on your purpose and on the people who accept you, nothing can stop   you.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we start today in Japan where the country with the world`s third largest economy is now fully in the space race after   becoming the latest nation to land a spacecraft on the moon. The Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency or JAXA says it`s uncrewed robotic explorer   called SLIM, which stands for the Smart Lander for Investigating Moon made a soft landing on the lunar surface. But the agency says the mission may   end earlier than expected because the spacecraft solar cell is not producing enough electricity. The land`s battery power is so limited that   JAXA believes it might only last for several hours.  As the agency continues to examine the latest data on the cause of the Lander`s solar cell issue. Space officials believe SLIM is actually not   pointing in the correct direction. The Japanese space agency, however, still declared this mission of minimum success due to the fact that this   was a precise, soft lunar landing.  Japan is now the fifth nation in history to land on the moon. Joining the United States, China, India, and the former Soviet Union. Japan is looking   to make even more strides in the Great Space Race. As Japanese astronauts may be teaming up with NASA`s Artemis program on a mission that looks to   land the first woman and first person of color on the moon. Our Space and Defense Correspondent, Kristin Fisher has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, the good news is that Japan`s Moon Sniper lunar lander has touched down on the surface of   the moon, but there`s a problem. And the problem is that it`s having a tough time generating power. There`s an issue with one of the lunar   Lander`s solar cells. And so, Japan`s space agency, JAXA is working right now, troubleshooting. They`re trying to fix it. And there is a chance that   it could be fixed. It may just have -- may just have to wait until the sun actually moves position and can reach those solar cells. But it`s just too   soon to say, we`re going have to wait.  But the good news is that Japan was able to pull off this very complex mission. I mean, just landing a spacecraft on the moon is something that   only four other countries have been able to do. Only two others in this century, China and India, even the United States, hasn`t been able to do   it, or haven`t even really tried since the end of the Apollo program back in 1972. So, a big step forward for Japan and its space agency. But still   too soon to say, if this mission is fully a success. That`s going take a bit of time.  The other thing that`s too soon to determine is if this lunar lander is going to live up to its name as the Moon Sniper because it was going for a   really precise target. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: For our next story, we take you just outside of Hong Kong, where at photographer founded way to showcase the beauty of nature that`s often   concealed during the day. Our Kristie Lu Stout strapped a flashlight to her head and went on a nighttime trek and no wilderness to hunt for critters   that coexist in the midst of the massive city nearby. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Every night Hong Kong`s iconic skyline stars in its own show. A spectacle of lasers and steel in one of the most   densely populated places on earth. Less than 20 kilometers away, another curtain opens to reveal a natural world often forgotten in the dark.  (On Camera): We`re in Shing Mun Country Park. In the daytime this is an area very popular for hikers. But at night time, that`s when the creatures   come out. What are you hoping that we will find tonight? UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I`m hoping to find a couple of snakes and any other aquatic creatures. STOUT: Leading are nocturnal safari, Hong Kong British educator and photographer Lawrence Hylton. In the darkness of night, Hylton has captured   images of birds like this quizzical collared scops owl, insects like the Atlas moth and snakes like this white-lipped pit viper. LAWRENCE HYLTON, NATURE PHOTOGRAPHER: My favorite are snakes and spiders. However, I try and go for anything that I can get my camera up against. STOUT: Hylton says he photographs the animals as he encounters them with minimal impact to them or the environment. HYLTON: It will come out. It`s OK. STOUT: So, we are on a way to the stream. HYLTON: Yes, we are. STOUT: And looking for snakes along the way. (Voice-over): Wandering past water buffalo at rest, we encounter warty newts at play. (On camera): Oh yes, right there, two of them.  (Voice-over): A huntsman spider shows off its mysterious beauty as a monkey watches from above. It takes patience and a passion for every creature, big   and small. HYLTON: Watch your step. STOUT: Trekking in the dark is not easy. You have to watch your feet. And always keep your eyes open. HYLTON: We have relatively pristine stream ways, which is quite rare for Hong Kong. Also, as far away enough from civilization that wildlife can   live without too much disturbance. STOUT: Hong Kong is home to an astonishing array of wildlife with many creatures emerging only at night. Some 40% of the territory is protected   parkland. But here and around the world, poaching and urbanization are destroying safe havens. BOSCO CHAN, WWF-HK DIRECTOR OF CONSERVATION: We have lost, on average, almost 70% of our wildlife populations since the 1970s. And that, by   itself, tells you we are not doing too well protecting the planet globally. STOUT: At the end of this century, it`s estimated up to 33 million hectares of natural habitat will be lost as a result of urban development. That is   more than the size of the U.S. State of New Mexico. Lawrence says his mission is to promote conservation through photography. HYLTON: We have lots of trackers who visit this area and fear snake and fear the unknown. Makes people do silly things. And hopefully, someday in   the future, everyone can just enjoy nature. STOUT: Nearing midnight, we spot a rare Futsing Wolf Snake -- nonvenomous, nocturnal and extremely rare in Hong Kong. Bearing witness to the richness   of nature in the backyard of a global metropolis. Bye-bye. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz hot shot. Which of these legendary artists was a feature member of the group of musicians and actors known as The Rat Pack? Tony Bennett, Bing Crosby, Frank Sinatra, or Elvis Presley? Congrats, if you said Frank Sinatra, the leader of this group of entertainers that appeared on stage and in films in the 1950s and 60s.  All right, squeak hearts. I don`t mean to be cheesy, but today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 in is pretty "ratmarkable" Jeanne Moos takes us to   Chicago where a hole in the ground is raising a whole lot of questions. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Move over New York with your bagel lover your ads are long gone Chicago rat is making a deep   impression. Thanks to artist Winslow Dumaine. WINSLOW DUMAINE, ARTIST: They`re starting to call me Rat Hole guy, so. MOOS (voice-over): In early January a friend told Winslow about the rat imprint on Chicago`s north side, his reaction. DUMAINE: Immediate laughter. MOOS (voice-over): He ratted out the rat hole by posting this photo and now people are making pilgrimages to the imprint, posing leaving money and   flowers even a fake mouse. Residents say the rat hole has been around for more than 20 years. MOOS (on camera): But is it a rat? DUMAINE: OK, it`s probably a squirrel. It has like the wide hips and the long claws of a squirrel. MOOS (voice-over): Whatever it was, one state representative is touting it as the jewel of the 11th district. UNIDENIFIED FEMALE: The Chicago rapper. MOOS (voice-over): But everyone is wondering did he get out. Optimus say you can see paw prints. DUMAINE: Leading away from the -- the splat hole. MOOS: It`s become the Wile E. Coyote of Chicago. Let`s let the leader of the Rat Pack salute the city`s latest tourist attraction. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That`s my kind of town, Chicago. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: All right. This rat hole is credited with bringing the whole community together. Winslow Dumaine who spoke with Jeanne there, posted a   photo on Saturday showing a wedding proposal that happened at the Rat Hole.  Thanks to everyone who reached out on social media this weekend @coywire and to all of our CNN 10 YouTube subscribers were showing love today with   shout out time, Indianapolis, Indiana, Ben Davis High School, go Giants. And this shout out goes to Barrigada, Guam, Harvest Christian Academy, Ms.   Todd`s class, rise up lovely people going out and make it awesome today. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-01-23
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up sunshine? Hope you`re off to a strong start to your day. Let`s take some good energy into this Tuesday, January   23rd and rise up.  Today is the New Hampshire primary, which is the first primary election of the season. Unlike what we saw in Iowa last week, which was a caucus   system, New Hampshire voters will cast their ballots today as they would do with any other vote. But today we`re not getting into the latest numbers   around the U.S. election. Instead, I want to focus on border security. It`s a heated topic lately and it`s going to certainly play a major role in this   year`s presidential election.  And while there are plenty of policy arguments worth discussing, today I want to focus on one of the many groups that have been making their way to   the U.S. border, Chinese nationals. It`s a group that has seen a recent spike in migration activity here in the U.S. According to government data,   more than 31,000 people from China were caught crossing illegally into the U.S. from Mexico in the first 11 months of 2023. That`s more than 20 times   the yearly average over the previous decade. Our David Culver recently followed a few Chinese migrants to learn more about why they are choosing   to make this risky journey.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translation): Goodbye, my homeland. DAVID CULVER, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: If crossing the U.S. southern border is step one, then step two, for these Chinese migrants, might just   be even more daunting. You`ve made it. Now what?  (On camera): How is it now that you`re in the United States?  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There`s freedom.  CULVER: Freedom, they tell us. Even as Border Patrol handcuffs and leads them onto buses to be processed, where they go from here and who helps them   along the way might surprise you.  (On camera): We`re going to go down to the basement here. He said he`s got a couple of rooms.  (Voice-over): From Southern California to New York, we meet dozens of Chinese migrants who`ve taken near identical paths to get to the U.S.  (On camera): And you expect more to come?  MA JU, CHINESE MUSLIM COMMUNITY LEADER: Yes, maybe five.  CULVER: Oh, maybe put in another bed, do you think?  JU: Yes.  CULVER (voice-over): Community leader Ma Ju tours me through the many rooms of this flushing house where he hosts migrants from China.  (On camera): You have Christians?  JU: Yes, yes. Buddhists. CULVER: Buddhists. JU: Muslim. CULVER: Muslim, all under one roof? JU: Yeah. CULVER: Behind each door, we find a different story.  (On camera): You`re learning English? It`s your daughter?  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, yes.  CULVER: And where is she right now?  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: In China, in China. CULVER: She`s in China right now. Does it surprise you that we`re seeing such a surge in Chinese migrants coming to the U.S.? I`m not surprised, Ma says. I think this is just the beginning. But Ma stresses that this goes beyond politics and economics. Coming to the U.S.   is their way of seeking dignity, he says.  Ye Chengxiang is seeking that dignity for his wife and their two young daughters. He says the Chinese Communist Party`s crackdowns on faith,   especially towards Muslims, motivated him to leave.  To me, he says, the U.S. has felt like a soft, warm embrace.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: My favorite color is blue. Thank you.  CULVER: While some feel hope, there are those like 28-year-old Zheng Shiqing, who feel mounting pressure to find work. He crossed into the U.S.   a few weeks ago and is eager to repay money he borrowed from family and friends to make the trek.  There`s an army of migrants marching north, he tells me. It is going to be so competitive to get a job. He sees the migration influx as added career   competition. He looks to those who`ve come before him, like Wang Qun, in the U.S. now for more than a year and a half.  After flying to Ecuador in the spring of 2022, Wang then rode motorcycles, buses, and boats to get to the U.S.-Mexico border, eventually making it to   Los Angeles with a dream to become a truck driver.  CULVER: Where do things now stand for you legally here? Wang tells me today he is part of the overwhelming backlog of U.S. asylum cases. But it`s not stopped him from building a life here.  I`ve got a work permit, driver`s license, and social security number, he tells me. Adding, we work hard and pay taxes. We`re not a burden.  While Wang is waiting to plead his asylum case in court, he`s now legally working as a truck driver. His focus? On the road ahead. Yet, behind him,   there are thousands from China and elsewhere determined to reach their American dream.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: India`s Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, presided over the inauguration of a newly built Hindu temple in the city of Ayodhya. But, as coming under   controversy, as critics say, this temple was constructed on the site of a 16th Century mosque destroyed by Hindu nationalists in the early 90s. CNN`s   Vedika Sud has more for us from India. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VEDIKA SUD, CNN REPORTER: This temple near in completion in India`s holy city of Ayodhya has divided the nation. Built on contested land, the   construction of the Ram Mandir is said to have cost about $180 million and is seen as a political win for Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It`s   also widely expected to help him secure historic third term in office later this year.  But why are these 1.12 hectares of land so controversial? To understand, we need to go back hundreds of years.  In the 16th Century, the land was home to a mosque, the Babri Masjid. But Hindus believed this site is where Lord Ram, one of the most irrefutable   deities in Hinduism, was born. They say the mosque was built on the ruins of an old Hindu temple.  As the dispute escalated, in the 19th Century, authorities sealed the mosque to both Muslims and Hindus. In the early 1980s, a group of Hindu   nationalist organizations, which include in Modi`s Bharatiya Janata Party, started a movement to build a new temple at the site.  A campaign which stirred strong emotions in India ramped up in 1989. The issue is credited with helping the BJP win more than half the seats in the   1991 state elections in India`s most significant Hindu vote base, Uttar Pradesh.  One year later, right-wing Hindu mobs stormed the site and demolished the mosque. It sparked some of the worst violence in India since its   independence, with more than 2,000 people killed in riots around the country.  In 2019, after decades of legal battles, India`s Supreme Court issued a ruling that said the destruction of the Islamic structure was an egregious   violation of the rule of law, but granted Hindu groups permission to build a temple there while giving the Muslim community another plot of land,   officially ending the dispute.  But the ruling was seen as a blow towards India`s Muslim minority, many of whom say the government sees them as second-class citizens. A few months   later, Modi laid the foundation stone for the Ram Mandir.  Since then, the city of Ayodhya itself has undergone a full infrastructural makeover. It has a new airport and its roads, railways and other historical   sites have been revamped.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz hot shot, at what temperature does water freeze?  Zero degrees Fahrenheit, 21 degrees, 32 degrees, 45 degrees Fahrenheit? If you said 32 degrees Fahrenheit, put your mittens up. Anytime the temperature drops below this line, liquid water will begin to turn to ice.  Inspiration struck for photographer Joe Chowaniec when temperatures in Alberta, Canada fell close to 50 degrees below zero. This frozen in time   series captures what it looks like when cold weather keeps creative folks all cooped up. CNN`s Jeanne Moos has more.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT: When it`s 40 or 50 degrees below zero, you can`t blame a guy for taking boiling water and blowing off   a little steam, watching it instantly turn into snow and ice. But Photographer Joe Chowaniec of Alberta, Canada got a kick out of seeing what   other people did.  How cold is it? Cold enough to use a banana to pound a nail. Cold enough to beat a frozen shirt like a drum. To turn jeans into a battering ram. So Joe   decided to do his own game of, you froze your what off?  JOE CHOWANIEC, PHOTOGRAPHER: The next one was the plate of ramen noodles.  MOOS: In 60 seconds, the boiled noodles were frozen stiff.  CHOWANIEC: Frozen in time. The frozen in time series I guess I`m calling it.  MOOS: The next experiment involved placing an egg on a couple of straws and cracking it open. Forget hard boiled, we`re talking frozen solid.  CHOWANIEC: My neighbors were looking out the window and thought I was crazy.  MOOS: And finally, there was something charming. Make that Charmin about what the severe cold did to toilet paper.  CHOWANIEC: People could make the best of the conditions they`re in.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: All right, we couldn`t leave you today without my favorite part of the show. Giving shout outs to all of you who make our show the best 10   minutes in news. Groveton High School in Groveton, New Hampshire, fly Eagles, fly.  And this shout out goes to our friends to the north in Anchorage, Alaska, Clark Middle School. We see you, Falcons. Rise up. Don`t forget tomorrow is   #YourWordWednesday, the day that you help us write the show and boost our vocab.  Follow me at @coywire on Instagram, Snapchat and TikTok. Put your unique vocabulary word in the comment section of my most recent post with your   school, your teacher, your mascot if you`d like. And we`re going to choose a winner to work into tomorrow`s show.  I`m Coy. This is CNN 10 and you are awesome. END 

Date: 2024-01-24
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up sunshine. Welcome to CNN 10, where I tell you the, what, letting you decide what to think. I`m Coy Wire. Today`s   #YourWordWednesday. So thank you for all of the exceptional submissions. Be on the lookout to see if your word helped us write this show and augmented   our vocabulary, last to get to not a lot of time to do it. So let`s get to it.  We start on Wall Street where the stock market set a record high on Monday, the Dow Jones Industrial average, a stock market index, which tracks the 30   biggest companies in the us rose 138 points crossing 38,000 for the first time ever. But what this means is a bit more complicated than just the   ringing of celebratory bells. Stocks may be looking good right now, but some experts like JP Morgan CEO, Jamie Diamond, warn that Wall Street isn`t   paying enough attention to the potential impacts of political tensions around the world.  These experts point to Russia, invading Ukraine, Israel`s war with Hamas, tensions between China and the U.S. and China and Taiwan. As examples of   developments around the world that they say could impact the economy. And aside from what could happen, it`s important to look at what`s actually   happening with the economy right now. You may remember recently our show examined how there is a disconnect between the current economic reality,   which is looking pretty good and its perception, many Americans aren`t feeling all that great about it.  Despite avoiding a recession in 2023 and with positive employment numbers, a December CNN poll found that 71% of Americans said the economy was poor,   but that may be changing. A recent survey from the University of Michigan, showed that as inflation or rise in prices of goods and services has   slowed, Americans are feeling much better about the economy 21% better than last year to be exact.  And they also have the most positive attitude towards the economy since July of 2021. Of course, things could change, especially in an election   year where perception can be everything. And if things do change, we`ll have you covered on how and why right here on CNN 10 and you know us, we`re   not going to be sesquipedalian about it.  Next up, we`re putting it to a test, a stress test. Well, we`re showing you one, so no need to worry or afraid, just sit back and relax as we take you   to one of NASA`s space centers in Alabama, where a company called Sierra Space recently tested an inflatable space station that once in orbit   expands to a three-story high building, our McKenna Ewen is on the story. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MCKENNA EWEN, CNN DIGITAL PRODUCER: A commercial space company burst its full-size space station module on purpose. Sierra Space conducted the test   at NASA`s Marshall Space Flight Center in Alabama, it was to measure the strength of its expandable structure. The company says the module called a   life habitat is a place for living and working on a future space station. It launches on a rocket and inflates on orbit and has to be strong enough   to withstand the harsh environment of space. To test that, the soft structure was inflated until it failed. Sierra said, it exceeded in NASA`s   stress recommendation by 27%.  Sierra Space has an agreement with NASA to test commercial products at NASA facility and plans more aggressive testing of the habitat this year.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: That story was on end popping. Next, we`re talking AI specifically what artificial intelligence could mean for your education. North Carolina   recently became the fourth state to create official guidelines for using AI in schools. The guidebook says teachers can use AI to save time helping   with things like automating administrative tasks so they can focus more on actually teaching and students while they can use AI tools to help them   overcome certain hurdles like voice to text, for example, could help some students who may face challenges while typing or writing and translation   tools could help some students who are still working to break down language barriers.  North Carolina`s main point of emphasis was that they feel it`s important to incorporate AI in the classroom, but it`s just as important to do so   responsibly. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DR. ROB JACKSON, SUPERINTENDENT, BUNCOMBE COUNTY SCHOOLS: To make sure our students are able to leverage the value of artificial intelligence while   protecting from temptations, cheating and -- and doing something they shouldn`t be doing academically. We are charged with preparing our students   for the world that they`ll enter as they leave our school system. We have to make sure they`re ready. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Come along with me now, as we take a trek to Ethiopia where a startup company is working to transform the country`s discarded plastic into   sustainable building materials. CNN Producer, Hadra Ahmed travel to the capital City of Addis Ababa to learn more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) HADRA AHMED, CNN PRODUCER: Like many major cities around the world, Ethiopia`s Capital, Addis Ababa has a problem with plastic. Every year,   thousands of tons of plastic are left on the street, a major problem seeking an urgent solution. That`s where this man fits in. Kidus Asfaw co-  founded Kubik in 2021. It`s a business that turns hard to dispose of plastic into low-cost building materials. KIDUS ASFAW, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, KUBIK: My personal journey at Kubik meant a lot because I`m a father of three, three very beautiful, wonderful,   smart Ethiopian kids who`ve lived abroad for a very long time. And I wanted to make sure that I can participate in creating a city and a country that   they can be proud to come back to and work and live the same way that I have. And it`s never an easy topic to hear on the news about the perception of countries like mine when it comes to poverty, when it comes to difficulties   of life. And instead of sitting back and watching, I felt that I had a conviction like many others to participate in changing that narrative by   working here and really changing what a city like Addis Ababa could look like in the next 20 to 50 years. AHMED: To help make his vision of creating a new look city, Kubik has invested in a state-of-the-art factory. ASFAW (voice-over): So, today we`re at the Adama Industrial Park. We are at Kubik`s factory facility where we`re going to be converting over 45,000   kilos of plastic waste every single day into our building materials. Today`s a very exciting and a very emotional day. It`s been two years in   the making with a lot of ups and downs in making it work. So just even seeing a container open and seeing the stuff that we`ve been talking about for over a year has just put a lot of tears into our eyes. The team is really excited. We`re very uplifted. And we really want to see now this working not only in the factory but all over the country. ASFAW (On camera): Success for me is a happy customer. In our case, a happy customer is that person that never had the opportunity and choice to live   in a clean, beautiful house, being able to do that. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Pop quiz hot shot. What year was the first Polaroid instant camera sold?  1912, 1937, 1948, or 1972? Snap and imaginary celebratory selfie if you said 1948, the first Polaroid camera capable of printing photos on the spot was brought to market in 1948   by an inventor named Edwin Land.  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is Slovenian photographer, AndreJa Ravnak, 2023`s Travel Photographer of the Year. She left people enthralled   and enamored with dreamy photographs of European landscapes like this one of the Hills in Tuscany, Italy marinating in an enchanting mist. The   contest featured more than 20,000 images submitted by photographers in more than 150 countries.  Take a look at this picture from Photographer, Sam Turley capturing a moment between a young Pangolin and its caretaker Mateo in Zimbabwe. The   photographer noticed the pangolin always returns to Mateo when they attempt to release it back into the wild.  And how about this image? It was taken by 14-year-old Caden Shepard Choi, Caden Won Young Travel Photographer of the Year. Her black and white photos   show the Navajo people in Chinle, Arizona collecting wool from sheep.  All right, thank you for all of the #YourWordWednesday submissions, especially to Mr. Tate from Rowe Middle School in Milwaukie, Oregon.   Today`s word, sesquipedalian, an adjective meaning characterized by long words or long-winded. Thank you for making us smarter today.  Shout out time now. Today we`ve got a shout out going to Delmar Middle School on the border of Delaware and Maryland and the town that claims to   be too big for just one state. Perfect size for a shoutout, though. We see you, Wild Cats. And this shout out goes to The Vipers at Verrado High   School in Arizona, thanks slithering part of your day with us.  Thanks to everyone who subscribed and submitted on our CNN 10 YouTube page. Have an awesome day. Make it a great day. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-01-25
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up superstar. I`m Coy Wire. Welcome to CNN 10, where I tell you the what, letting you decide what to think. It`s   Thursday, January 25th, happy Friday Eve.  We start the show today in Yemen where the U.S. and U.K. carried out another round of attacks against infrastructure held by the rebel group,   known as the Houthis. This strike marks the eighth round of attacks by the U.S. military on Houthis targets in just over 10 days. Here`s our Oren   Liebermann to explain who the Houthis are and why the U.S. is striking the region. OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: The U.S. has carried out a series of strikes in Yemen in the Middle East over the past couple of   weeks. In at least two of those cases, they have been joined by the U.K. in carrying out this operation.  Now the region for this goes straight to the waterways of the Middle East and how critical they are, specifically the Red Sea, which is just west of   Yemen and the Gulf of Aden, just south of Yemen. These are some of the most critical waterways in the world, because if you can`t go through here in   the Red Sea, then you have to go thousands of miles all the way around Africa. And that`s why they`re so important for international shipping   companies.  Now, the problem here is that the Houthis on Iran-backed rebel group in Yemen have been launching attacks on commercial vessels in the Red Sea and   in the Gulf of Aden using one way attack drones and different kinds of missiles. This has caused many of the world`s largest shipping companies to   avoid the Red Sea in the Gulf of Aden entirely. That adds thousands of miles to the route they have to go all the way around Africa.  It also increases the cost of shipping, which has a profound effect and is expected to have a profound effect on the global economy. The question what   to do here, the U.S. and other countries tried to send a warning. There was a U.N. security council resolution against these continued Houthi attacks   on shipping in the Red Sea and in the Middle East. But when these failed to stop the Houthis, the U.S. and the U.K. began carrying out a series of   airstrikes on Houthis targets going after their facilities, where they store the kinds of weapons they`ve used to attack international shipping   lanes, such as ballistic missiles, cruise missiles, and one way attack drone.  The hard part here is that the U.S. is trying not to escalate the region. The Middle East has already seen a tremendous amount of tension, not only   with the Gaza war, but also in Iraq and Syria still after continued attacks on international shipping lanes in these critical waterways, the U.S. has   felt compelled to act. Coy, back to you. WIRE: Pop quiz, hot shot. What year was the Doomsday Clock invented? 1947, 1951, 1963 or 19 68? 1947 is your answer here. That`s when the bulletin of atomic scientist created the clock largely in reaction to the threat of nuclear weapons in   the prospect of a nuclear arms race between the U.S. and the Soviet Union.  So what is the Doomsday Clock? Once a year, scientists reflect on the state of the world and determine how close humanity is to well ending it. Our   Nicholas Blatt is here to explain the story behind this unique clock and tell us what some scientists are thinking as they reflect on our current   year. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NICHOLAS BLATT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: This is no ordinary clock. It doesn`t tell time. Instead it counts down to the apocalypse. This is the Doomsday   Clock. And if we`re to ever strike midnight, well, let`s just say we probably won`t be here to see it. On January 23rd, experts updated just how   close they think we are to catastrophe. The Doomsday Clock was conceived by a group of scientists who worked on the Atom Bomb known as the bulletin of   the atomic scientists. In 1947, the symbolic clock was first set at seven minutes to midnight by designer Martyl Langsdorf representing their fears of atomic annihilation.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: A seeds of men`s oblivion. BLATT: But fears eased by 1963, with the signing of the partial Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, and the Bolton reset the clock to 12 minutes to midnight.   Since then, the clock has been set further and closer to midnight. According to the severity of an increasingly diverse range of existential   threats, determined by scientists and Nobel laureates reaching its furthest in 1991 at a comforting 17 minutes from disaster.  In 2022, the clock was kept to just 100 seconds to midnight due to issues like nuclear armament, climate change and threats to democracy. In 2023,   scientists stated we were closer than ever to global catastrophe at just 90 seconds to midnight. And now in 2024 experts say we are still at an   alarming 90 seconds to midnight. Due in part to conflicts around the globe, AI advancement and slow movement on climate change.  The Doomsday Clock is as simple. An indicator of the perils humans create and a plea to find solutions for a better future. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: One world (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Turning to the animal kingdom, I don`t know about you, but I was today years old when I learned that animals can see colors that we humans   can`t, thanks to new technology. We`re now able to get a glimpse of what the world looks like for bees, birds, butterflies, and more. Our Channon   Hodge reports on a brand-new camera that can help us see the world through the eyes of animals. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHANNON HODGE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: This is a caterpillar through the eyes of a honeybee, and this is how a mockingbird sees the sky. A new technology   allows humans to see the world the way animals do. DR. DANIEL HANLEY, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF BIOLOGY, GEORGE MASON UNIVERSITY: Many color signals that we find in nature are not evolved to be viewed by   humans. We`re just not seeing the full picture. This is the first time that we`re able to establish a highly accurate measurements, then perceived   colors in motion. HODGE: A standard camera captures three distinct color channels, red, green, and blue, but researchers led by Vera Vasas at the UK`s University   of Sussex and Professor Daniel Hanley`s team at George Mason University created a camera system that adds an extra dimension. It records four   different color channels, including the ultraviolet, and they just published a steady detailing what the new technology can do. HANLEY: So my favorite video is the video of the rainbow as seen through the eyes of a mouse, a honeybee, bird, and human. So if you look in the   bottom, there`s a magenta stripe on the bird vision. This is the ultraviolet band of the rainbow. That`s invisible to our eye. This actually   goes to show us that there`s more dimensions to the rainbow than we typically appreciate. HODGE: Hanley says birds and insects use color to find food attractive mate, or avoid predators. So the new technology can help humans to better   understand how animals communicate and how to protect them. HANLEY: More than 600 million birds die every year from striking window surfaces. And there are stickers that you can place on the outer surface of   glass that absorb ultraviolet light, but because you can`t see it, it`s hard to assess how effective they might be. With the help of this new   technology, we can now see what the bird would see as it approaches a glass surface and come up with better solutions. This study is a metaphor for   seeing things from a different perspective. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: From what animals see to how we see animals, today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is about a 600-pound bull from Newark, New Jersey named   Ricardo who made a miraculous escape from a slaughter house last month, his unbelievable feet steered a high school art class to catalog his story.   Toni Yates from affiliate WABC takes us to the exhibit.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There`s a bull running down the tracks. TONY YATES, WABC REPORTER: When Ricardo made his famous escape from a slaughter house in Newark, back in December, Columbia High School`s art   teacher was inspired. CURTIS GRAYSON, ART TEACHER: Well, what happened was it, it started where I had a vision. I was -- I wanted to have something with the Spanish   department. YATES: He commissioned some of his best students to combine what they`re learning about Spain and his bull fighting tradition with Ricardo`s escape,   where the rule is if he gets away, he gets to live. GRAYSON: So to focus on the bull and understanding, as far as the whole aspect of bull, the bull fighting, the empathy was happening or the bull. YATES: After a month of work, this is the collection from Grayson`s artist. JACK BOOKER-DODD, STUDENT: I wanted to incorporate how like the Cape is the only colored part of the drawing. And you see how the bull is just blindly   running into it almost as if the Cape commands what`s what to do. LILLIAN KYLE, STUDENT: I wanted to capture like the animosity in the bulls when they`re running, but also how they are just innocent in the sense that   they`re put into the situation like they`re not choosing to run.  ELI GRONER, STUDENTL: I personally think that tradition is something that we should respect, but also can be altered over time facing the challenges   we face today. YATES: The experience turned out to be quite thought provoking for this group. GRAYSON: That`s why we have -- there are now our #empathy foot bull. So to hopefully spur more conversation about it, you know, more awareness. YATES: The exhibits premier held this evening at the school, adding more voices to that conversation. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: That art was ebullient. They really grabbed that opportunity by the horns.  Moving on now, it`s shout out time. This shout out goes to, CY Middle School in Casper, Wyoming, goes Cyclones. We see why you`re so special.  And this shout out to goes to The Bears at White Bear Lake Area High School in White Bear Lake, Minnesota. Make sure you go on and roar and rise up   today.  Have a wonderful Thursday, everyone. We`re going to see it right back here tomorrow, Friyay. I`m Coy Wire. And we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-01-26
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello sunshine, happy Friday, Friyay, almost time to unwind and relaxed the mind before we creep into the weekend. We`ll go   one more time, seek knowledge information with a bit of inspiration and without hesitation offer you the next generation, rise up. We start today by talking about how video games may be affecting us in a way we might not realize. Gaming is hugely popular around the world with   fully committed gamers playing sometimes for hours each day. Here`s the thing. They usually play with a volume cranked up and according to a new   study published this week, this poses serious risks for hearing loss.  Here`s how our ears work. The inner ear or the spiral looking thingy known as the Cochlea contains thousands of sensory hairs. Loud sounds can damage   these hair cells in a way that can cause temporary, even permanent hearing loss. The damage is determined by how loud the noise is and how long the   ear is exposed to it. So, a moderately loud noise occurring nearby only once would allow the ear to potentially recover. But if that exposure   happens repeatedly over a period of time, that can lead to permanent loss.  So back to video games. This new research review the 14 studies that included a total of 54,000 adults and children worldwide. They found that   the average participant in the study gained at sound levels that often nearly surpassed were outright exceeded what is considered a permissible   level. They also found that participants in the study who gained regularly were more likely to experience something called tinnitus, a hearing issue   that presents as a ringing sound in the ear.  So here`s the question. How can someone gain safely? Well, based off this report, we should try to monitor sound levels. There are actually apps that   can help you with this. But one general tip comes from a doctor to whom CNN spoke. The doc recommended going no higher than 60% of the maximum volume.  But pay attention to your hearing, whether you`re a gamer or not. If you notice any changes, especially that ringing sound in your ear, set up some   time to speak with a doctor who can assess what might be going on.  Next, you may remember we talked about an incident on a Boeing plane where a door plugged blew off midflight January 5th, the Alaska Airlines plane   was left with a gaping hole, the size of a refrigerator with passengers inside while flying at 16,000 feet in the sky. As a result of the incident,   the Federal Aviation Administration grounded hundreds of 737 Max 9 planes. But now it looks like those planes may soon be cleared to return to the   sky. Here`s our Pete Muntean with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PETE MUNTEAN, CNN AVIATION CORRESPONDENT:  The latest is the FAA has done its part. It`s ended the 19 day long emergency grounding of the Max 9. It   reviewed the data from Boeing Airlines at about a quarter of the fleet that`s out there in the U.S.  So the Max 9 can fly again. But now before airlines do a final check of each plane, here is what the FAA is calling for, a detailed visual   inspection of the door plug. That is the part that violently shot off Alaska 1282, 3 weeks ago.  The FAA also once checks of the bolts and guides that hold the door plug on the plane and any abnormal conditions to be corrected. Remember both   airlines that operate these planes found loose door plug bolts. Alaska Airlines has 65 Max 9s. They say inspections will take about 12 hours of   labor, meaning the first few Max 9s at Alaska Airlines will be flying as soon as Friday. United Airlines is 79 Max 9s. United says its planes will be flying by Sunday. Airlines cannot wait to end this chapter after being forced to   cancel flights by the thousands, even still the question a lot of people have is, are these planes truly safe?  Important to note the NTSB has not finished its investigation. And this week I asked that question to FAA Administrator, Mike Whitaker. PETE MUNTEAN:  Should the flying public feel safe being on a Max 9 when it is ultimately ungrounded? MICHAEL WHITAKER,FAA ADMINISTRATOR:  If -- if the aircraft is ungrounded, that means that we believe it`s -- it`s airworthy. And if it`s airworthy,   the aircraft is safe. I can say that we`re not going to let that aircraft back in the air until we`re convinced that that issue has -- has been taken   care of. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Hot quiz, hot shot. What was the first supersonic passenger carrying commercial airplane called? Hurricane, Concorde, Nighthawk or Sky Crane? If you pilot said the Concorde congrats, you`ve passed with flying colors. From its first light in 1969 until its last in 2003, the Concorde   supersonic plane shovel passengers at speeds far faster than traditional airlines. Next, we`re looking at how NASA is aiming to take commercial travel to supersonic speeds. NASA has been testing the limits of flying both in space   and here on earth for decades. In 1947, X-1 became the first manned aircraft to break the sound barrier. In 1967, X-15 broke the record for   fastest manned flight ever, and that record 6.7 times the speed of sound still stands to this day.  Now NASA has created a new aircraft called X-59 intended to become the future of supersonic commercial air travel. But they`ve had to spend   decades researching ways to fix issues with supersonic travel like a little thing called Sonic boom.  No, not the special attack by Guile from Street Fighter. This Sonic boom, an enormous amount of sound energy created when an aircraft breaks the   sound barrier, which is about 750 miles per hour. The boom registers at about 110 decibels, about as loud as a thunderclap and loud enough to crack   windows on a house. But, even though NASA says the X-59 will cruise at about 925 miles per hour, it is designed to produce more of a thump than a boom spreading out   the sound rather than bringing it together. Besides the loud sound like all air travel, another concern is the impact on the climate. NASA has a   program looking at sustainable fuels for supersonic flight, because that`s going to be another requirement to truly make it a viable option in the   future. For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a conspiracy theory swirling around online ahead of the NFL conference championships this weekend. Just   four teams remain and the winners go to the Super Bowl. But are the two teams that will eventually face off in Las Vegas predetermined? And is   there a clue in the Super Bowl logo?  Follow me down the rabbit hole as we investigate this theory that there`s more than needs the eye to the colors of the Super Bowl logo. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, something`s going on with the Super Bowl logos. Is this magic coincidence, something supernatural or maybe it`s part of this giant   league wide conspiracy that some have said, are the NFL seasons scripted? What`s going on here? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Welcome to the table read for the 104th season of the NFL. Let`s get to work. WIRE:  At the start of the season, the NFL launched an ad, joking that the games were scripted, but many online, they think it`s true. For the last two seasons, the Super Bowl logos match the color schemes of the two teams playing. And, but the league tells us they design these logos   up to two years in advance. In 2022, the Superbowl 56 logo had the orange of the Cincinnati Bengals and gold of the LA Rams. The following season, the colors were replaced by   Philadelphia Eagles green and Kansas City Chiefs red. Is this some master plan and we`re all just drinking the Kool-Aid, was like predetermined to play for the Falcons and the Buffalo Bills before that?   No. Some online are calling foul, suggesting some nefarious conspiracy theory that the league already knows what teams it wants to make the big   game. And they fall a predetermined outcome rate in our faces.  This year`s Super Bowl logo colors purple and red, leaving only one possible outcome for this weekend`s conference championships. Time will   tell if the Ravens or 49ers proved the Super Bowl logo right. Yet again, the NFL has denied any conspiracy theory. They would say that one thing. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Thanks to producer Will Edmonds. Clearly, we had some fun with that. You know, we are committed to telling you the what, letting you decide what   to think.  Thanks to my CNN 10 producer this week. Jeremy Dunn, Victoria Fleischer, NAder Nikoupour, Kat Jennings, Sylvie Asath (ph) and Matthew Abshire. We   thank all of you. Today, we`re giving a shout out to the Railsplitter at Lincoln Park Middle School in Lincoln Park, Michigan, rise up. And this shout out goes to, the Clippers at Patterson High School in Baltimore, Maryland, rise up. Good luck to your Ravens. Have an awesome   weekend superstar. Remember that you are going to be the light that someone needs someday. You are more powerful than you know.  I`m Coy Wire. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2024-01-29
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Good morning, sunshine. I`m Coy. Welcome to CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news. We are coming to you from Detroit today.   We`re here to report on the excitement surrounding the Detroit Lions. The city sold out Lions Stadium last night, even though the team played the San   Francisco 49ers in California for the NFC Championship, the team has brought a sense of hope and unity to the entire city, all season,   incredible run. Now there`s just one NFL game that remains the Super Bowl in Las Vegas on February 11th. All right, we begin today in the Netherlands where the International Court of Justice ordered Israel to prevent genocide against the Palestinian   people in their ongoing war in Gaza. But before we get into that news, what exactly is the International Court of Justice? The ICJ is the United   Nations top court and was created after World War II to address disputes between nations and to give their opinions on international legal issues.   While these decisions are binding and cannot be appealed, the ICJ has no way to enforce them, but its opinions can heavily influence the U.N. and   other international institutions.  OK. Back to the most recent news, this began earlier this month after South Africa accused Israel of breaching international laws on genocide against   the Palestinians in Gaza. South Africa wanted the court to issue an emergency order that would force a cease fire. Basically, this would act as   a restraining order against further military action by Israel in Gaza until the court could consider the full case and that could take years.  Friday, the court`s 17 judge panel did order Israel to, quote, "take all measures to prevent genocide in Gaza." But it did not demand a ceasefire.   And as scrutiny increases on both sides of this war, last week`s ruling leaves, both Israelis and Palestinians with reasons to feel vindicated and   frustrated. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) NADIA SLIMI, CO-ORGANIZER OF THE PRO-PALESTINIAN PROTEST: It feels like a victory and a significant milestone and a -- a step in the right direction   in the elaboration of the Palestinian people in a way, it is also very disappointing that the court did not rule in favor for, uh, an immediate   cease fire at this time. BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER: Like every country, Israel has an inherent right to defend itself. The violent attempt to deny Israel this   fundamental right is blatant discrimination against the Jewish State. And it was justly rejected. The charge of genocide level against Israel is not   only false, it`s outrageous. And decent people everywhere should reject it. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Pop quiz, hot shot.  What percentage of the Earth`s surface is covered with water? 50%, 62%, 71%, or 96%? If you said, 71%, put your hands up. That`s according to U.S. Geological Survey.  All right, being up here in Detroit, Michigan, we`re nestled between two of the great lakes, lake Huron and Lake Michigan, both of which become frozen,   this time of year, at least parts of them.  Well, for our next story, we head to Antarctica where a man from here in Michigan is going viral on TikTok as he`s sharing his research journey,   searching for the oldest ice on the planet all while battling some exceed cold conditions. He spoke to our affiliate WXYZ from Sydney, Australia   after completing his third trip near the South Pole. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AUSTIN CARTER, ICE CORE RESEARCHER: So, what is the difference between ice you make at home in your freezer and ice here in Antarctica? The answer to   that is bubbles. ALICIA SMITH, WXYZ ANCHOR (voice-over): If Austin Carter had to pick a theme song, it would probably be "Ice Ice Baby." The 27-year-old doctoral student and Royal Oak native has been living on the southernmost continent for 50 days where researchers are drilling for   ice. CARTER: So, ice cores from Antarctica are this unique scientific resource. They contain a record of earth`s climate that`s pretty much unrivaled by   other archives.  SMITH: I caught up with him in Sydney, Australia via ZOOM this week after he`d just wrapped up his third trip near the South Pole. He joined researchers from 15 universities and COLDEX to find the oldest ice on the planet and study the prehistoric dust particles trapped inside.  (On camera): What is the oldest core of ice you`ve uncovered? CARTER: Our oldest ice sample that we`ve collected now is greater than 4 million years old and this is the oldest ice that`s ever been collected on   the planet. SMITH: And he`s been serving up this polar science knowledge to the masses. CARTER: Here are five things we can and cannot do while living here in Antarctica.  SMITH: This video racked has up 27.5 million views on TikTok. CARTER: My mother actually encouraged me to do, you know, she was like, "You know, people really have a lot of questions. You should make an   educational video."  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: In our next story, we want to take you on a journey to explore the ocean`s Twilight Zone. This home to ecosystems has rarely been explored or   documented by science, but husband and wife divers, Emmanuelle and Ghislain Bardout made it their mission. Our Bill Weir caught up with the team as   they were preparing for a six-month long expedition in the Mediterranean.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) GHISLAIN BARDOUT, CO-FOUNDER & CO-DIRECTOR, UNDER THE POLE: When you are a diver, you are always curious to go to see a little bit further. I think   every single diver in the world, when you are about to go up, you always have an eye to the depth, to the bottom. Little by little, you want to go   deeper because you wonder what, what are you going to find? BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT: Ghislain Bardout with his wife Emmanuelle in 2007, he has conducted thousands of dives often to 150 or   even 200 meters deep. His crew has explored everywhere from the Arctic to the Canary Islands, French Polynesia to the Caribbean. BARDOUT: We are talking about new ecosystem that`s covered the entire planet. All the shore, everywhere. It`s just below 30 meters, 40 meters. And there are, for sure, many species, many different ecosystem that all have a huge importance. So acquiring a better understanding of their   ecology is essential for the conservation of those depths. WEIR: With scientists aboard their boat under the poll aims to document these ecosystems for the first time and help preserve their future. Ghislain`s team are preparing for a six-month expedition, in the Mediterranean. That will take them from Greece to Italy, to France. In 2022, under the Pole help gain protection for black coral force in the Canary Islands. And they believe there is a similar ecosystem to be   explored on their Mediterranean voyage next year. BARDOUT: In Greece, they already explored the depths with robots ROVs. So they know some fields of black corals, but are not able to study because of   the depths, because they do not have the divers to do so. And I like those missions where there`s huge collaborations, you know, with different people   that can do together something they cannot do alone or just with their own team. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: For today`s story getting that 10 out of 10, how many chicken nuggets can you chow down? A California family fit off way more than they could   chew when they ordered food for delivery are magnificent. Jeanne Moos serves up a major Mickey bees mishap. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh my god. JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT: They thought they`d ordered several burgers, some fries and a few chicken McNuggets.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is a prank. It has to be a prank.  MOOS: Instead they got inundated with McNuggets. So many that grandma couldn`t count. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: 30, 40, 50, 60, 70. MOOS: Without bursting into laughter, her son-in-law put his head on the counter.  CHRIS MULLANCE, PLACE THE ORDER: There was nuggets and nuggets and nugget - -  MOOS: Delivered from a McDonald`s in Long Beach, California by a door dash driver. MULLANCE: Guy said this was the biggest order he`s ever had.  MOOS: And they didn`t skimp on the sauce. Jessica Vaccaro, then four-year- old son had questions.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That`s a lot? JESSICA VACCARO, RECORDER VIDEO: Mommy, is that a lot? Grandma, is this funny?  MOOS: Jessica, we recently unearth this 2017 video. She posted it, it went viral. They ended up giving most of the McNuggets to the homeless.  VACCARO: You packed them all up. And we went down to the beach and we handed them out. MOOS: Her husband, Chris thinks he accidentally added a zero ordering 20, rather than just 2, 10-piece boxes. He admits, he barely looked at the   total bill and he dropped this nugget.  MULLANCE: I consider myself a bit of a chicken McNuggets kind of sewer. MOOS: But 200, give us a "McBreak." (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: That`s a whole lot of chicken. Dad joke. Why are chicken so funny? "Because."  It`s shout out time now. This shout out goes to the Gladiators from Gresham Middle School in Knoxville, Tennessee. We see you. Keep shining, super   stars.  And this shout out goes to the Patriots at Orange Glen High School in Escondido, California, rise up, going out and make a marvelous moment this   magnificent Monday. Even if it`s just making somewhat smile today. I`m Coy Wire. And we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-01-30
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, sunshine. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. Enjoying our time here in Detroit, Michigan. The statue you see behind me   is called the Spirit of Detroit. In 1955, Marshall Fredericks was commissioned to create this monument, a man holding a family and a golden   orb. The bronze was cast in Oslo, Norway, making it all the way here, where it represents hope and progress for Detroit to this day, currently wearing   Lions jersey honoring the football team`s inspiring run. Now, for our lead story of the day, as LL Cool J would say, "Don`t call it a comeback, I been here for years." Cursive handwriting, it`s a style of   writing. A lot of schools in the U.S. don`t teach anymore. In 2010, it was left out of the national common core education and standards, which are a   set of learning goals that help teachers prepare students for college and future careers.  Cursive appears to be making a comeback though, just this month, California requires students in grades one through six to learn the writing style. It   is the 23rd state to currently mandate that cursive handwriting be taught in schools. And it`s the 10th state to do so since 2016, according to the   website, my cursive.com. There are five additional states considering similar laws.  Now, in an age of computer programming and digital communication, why is this classic writing style making a return? Well, educators in favor of   teaching it say it helps reading comprehension, find motor skills and allow students to read historical documents in their original form.  We turn now to China where a crumbling companies empire saga is now complete. Real estate developer, Evergrande, has the biggest debt of any   other competitor in the world. It became a symbol of China`s property crisis after it defaulted on its debt in 2021, that means the company   officially declared, it was unable to pay back the money it owed. Over $333 billion to be precise. And now a court in Hong Kong has ordered the company   to liquidate or sell everything it owns.  Over the past few years, what was happening with Evergrande had an impact on China`s domestic and international stock markets. For more, here`s our   very own KRISTIE Lu Stout. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIE LU STOUT, ANCHOR & CNN CORRESPONDENT: Evergrande, the world`s most indebted developer is heading to liquidation. On Monday, a judge here in   Hong Kong ruled to liquidate the Chinese company after years of failed attempts to restructure it. A Hong Kong judge, Linda Chan, she said, quote,   "It is time for the court to say enough is enough." Before the hearing, Evergrande shares are trading down as much as 20%. Trading was halted in   China Evergrande and its list of subsidiaries. For years now ever, Evergrande has been the poster child of China`s property debt crisis. It is the world`s most indebted property developer   with more than $328 billion of liabilities and $240 billion of assets. And last year in September, it`s Founder and Chairman, Xu Jiayin, was suspected   of crimes and detained by the police. Analysts say that the decision to liquidate this company is good news for China`s economy in the long run,   but it will be painful.  Now, according to Andrew Collier of Orient Capital Research, he says this, quote, "Evergrande`s liquidation is a sign that China is willing to go to   extreme ends to quell the property bubble. This is good for the economy in the long term, but very difficult in the short term," unquote. Now Gary Ng, a Senior Economist of Natixis adds this, "It is not an end but the beginning of the prolonged process of liquidation, which will make   Evergrande`s daily operations even harder. Investors will be concerned about whether there will be a snowball effect on other developers as the   queue to liquidation is long," unquote. In 2021, Evergrande triggered a market panic when it couldn`t make its debt payments. And China`s real estate market has yet to recover, it accounts   for as much as 30% of the country`s economic activity. And more than two- thirds of Chinese household wealth is tied up in real estate. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz hot shot. Which of these famous paintings became a household name after it was stolen from the Louvre in the early 1900S? Van Gogh`s "The Starry Night," Vermeer`s "Girl with a Pearl Earring," Botticelli`s "The birth of Venus," or Da Vinci`s "Mona Lisa." Mona Lisa, ding, ding, an Italian handyman stolen from the French Museum in 1911. Newspapers around the world published pictures of it and a two-year   police hunt for the now famous painting ensued.  Question for you, what`s more important art or the right to eat healthy, sustainable food? That`s a question environmental activists in Paris posed   after they threw pumpkin soup at the Mona Lisa, one of the most famous paintings in the world.  Here`s CNN`s Michael Holmes with more details on what happened at the Louvre Museum and the methods some folks used to bring attention to a   cause. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN ANCHOR (voice-over): The crowd gasps as two activists throw soup at one of the most famous works of art in the world. But it   would be the Mona Lisa, painted by Leonardo da Vinci in the 16th Century, who would have the last laugh. Her mysterious untouched by the stunt -- UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We need to close the room. HOLMES (voice-over): -- safe behind a shield of protective armored glass as security ushered people out of the room, the vandals obscured behind   barriers. Their protest for healthy and sustainable food leaving a bad taste in the mouths of many visitors. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It`s disgusting to treat art that`s really valuable for the history of humankind that way. HOLMES (voice-over): Museums around the world are on guard after a series of similar attacks on famous works of art, whether its throwing soup at a   Van Gogh; smearing paint on the casing of the Degas sculpture; or hurling oil at a painting by Gustav Klimt. It`s all for shock value: a tactic used by climate or anti-oil groups to get attention. But to many people, it`s a baffling, if not infuriating   disruption. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): I really don`t see the link. I`m not shocked for the Mona Lisa. I`m not worried for her, because she`s   ultra-protected. But then I don`t see the link with food, other than the fact that the Mona Lisa is internationally recognized. So we`ll definitely   hear about this. HOLMES (voice-over): The Mona Lisa has survived the centuries. It`s been stolen, attacked with acid, had objects thrown at it. So a dowsing of soup   and a canned message by activists only puts the spotlight back on it. A masterclass in capturing the public`s attention, something with which no gimmick or cheap trick can compare. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, edible fungus, expensive fungus truffles the culinary delicacy that grows underground can cost thousands of   dollars per pound. They need perfect conditions to grow. And sleuthy detective like methods to procure them.  Let`s join CNN`s Richard Quest who`s on a quest to forage for truffles in Puglia, a region known as the Bread Basket of Italy. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RICHARD QUEST, CNN ANCHOR: The hunt is on, and they`re off. The dogs have got the scent. There are truffles to be found.  We have dogs. We have wicked looking implement. They`re starting to find truffles.  I`m in a forest in Southern Italy. The forest location is sort of a secret and it`s raining.  GIUSEPPE LOLLI, TRUFFLE EXPERT: (Speaking in foreign language). QUEST: How`d you train them? (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) QUEST: Giuseppe Lolli guards his secrets. LOLLI: (Speaking in foreign language).  QUEST: But I thought truffle hunting used pigs. LOLLI: No dogs. Pig is a (foreign language). QUEST: Yes, you have -- the pigs eat them. They find them and eat them. LOLLI: (Speaking in foreign language). QUEST: Before I can even gather myself, the dogs have sniffed out a target.  Oh, stop it. Wow. Oh, oh, you just -- look at your pants. They`ll teach you to wear beige pants.  You have to be prepared to get messy if you want to find these jewels. Truffles are essentially underground mushrooms. LOLLI: (Speaking in foreign language). QUEST: And look, you know he`s getting a prize and there he is. He`s got a truffle things.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He look so proud. It`s like, you almost dug it up yourself, but it definitely wasn`t you that did. QUEST: That all happened so fast. Whoa, whoa, whoa, rough, again.  A ripen truffle gives off a distinct scent that the dogs can track.  Just see the excitement of the dogs and the whole businesses or something there.  Yeah, Look at that. I`m fooling even more in love with truffles. Now I see what you have to do to find them. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Just search, here you   go. Two for me, one for you. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: All right. All my fun guy and fun gals. Tomorrow`s #YourWordWednesday. Follow me @coywire on Instagram, Snapchat and TikTok,   drop your unique vocabulary word in the comment section on my most recent post, along with your school and teacher`s name. Let`s see if your word   helps us write tomorrow`s show and boosts our vocabulary.  Shout out time now. This shout out goes to the roaring Tigers at Oregon Trial Middle School in the City of Olathe, Kansas, rise up.  And this shout out goes to, Lockport Township High School in Lockport, Illinois, keep shining lovely people, much love, many blessings to you. We   appreciate each and every one of you. We`re going to see you tomorrow right here on CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-01-31
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people is January 31st, almost through the first month of the year. Happy February Eve. Today`s   #YourWordWednesday, the day we pick one of your word submissions to help broaden our vocabulary. So let`s see whose word helped us write today`s   show.  And we`ll start in France where protesting farmers blocked major highways leading to Paris this week. Why are they doing this? France is the European   union`s biggest agricultural producer, but local farmers say they`re struggling to make a living. They say, they are hurting from low pay,   cheaper imports, and excessive environmental regulations. So since Monday farmers have been blocking the roads around Paris with tractor barricades   to pressure the government for help. CNN`s Melissa Bell has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MELISSA BELL, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  French farmers are once again, blocking major roads across France, moving their anger now,   closer to the outskirts of the French capital, their aim, as they come towards Paris to put more pressure on the government to meet their demands,   which include higher wages, lower taxes, and protection from cheap imports.  If those conditions are not met, what the unions are threatening is what they`re calling a siege of Paris. Already, some 15,000 police, men and   women in security forces have been stationed to petrol stations and farmer`s markets to try and prevent the situation from spiraling out of   control.  This is a movement that has now spread to the four corners of France, although it began in the south and was led initially by just two farmers   unions. The farmers have been causing major disruption across the country with the setting up of roadblocks on key motorways, the setting, a light of   tires and waste, and the dumping of manure outside local stores. The government in the shape of the newly appointed Prime Minister, Gabriel Attal, has already offered concessions, but that say the farmers is not   enough. We expect new announcements to be made by the government this week to help what they describe as the farming world. But for now, farmers here   in France appear determined to keep going. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Let`s stay in Europe and head to the capital of Belgium. Brussels were similar protests broke out, sparked in large part because of those we   just saw in France. Belgium farmers are also upset by environmental regulations that leave them undercut by imports. And protests of a   different kind are happening in another neighboring country, Germany. As CNN Sebastian Shukla explains these demonstrations have just as much to do   with the direction of their government as they do with immediate economic concerns. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) (MUSIC) SEBASTIAN SHUKLA, PRODUCER, CNN (voice-over):  Let action speak. I don`t know where to start. But let`s meet on the street, this rapper rhymes.  Weekends in Berlin and across Germany are quickly becoming days of demonstration. These anti-far-right protestors have a message of light for   Germans. Never again means now, as they fear the rise of the far-right? LOUIS MOTAAL, SPOKESPERSON, FRIDAY`S FOR FUTURE:  Never again is now. And we have to protect our democracy as society here together in Germany,   because it`s under threat. SHUKLA:  That stems from a reported secret meeting of right-wing extremists at this hotel outside Berlin, allegedly members of Germany`s far-right   party, the AfD attended discussing the mass deportation of immigrants and German citizens of foreign descent.  Countryside and capital city also collided for the third straight week with farmers furious at fuel subsidy cuts.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  They make regulations that harm every one of us, not -- not only the farmers, but everyone in this country. And, um, yeah, we think   enough is enough. SHUKLA:  Train drivers have just paused a nationwide strike so they can go back to the bargaining table, demanding higher wages.  (On camera):  The fundamental cause for the protests are economic headwinds, but also the government of Olaf Scholz and his coalition is   deeply unpopular. And that is starting to create a split in German society.  (Voice-over):  Marcel Fratzscher is the President of the German Institute for Economic Research. MARCEL FRATZSCHER, PRESIDENT, GERMAN INSTITUTE FOR ECONOMIC RESEARCH: And Germany is currently in a, in a state of mental depression where people   have the impression, politicians are not acting. They`re only fighting. They`re not offering solutions. SHUKLA:  That is benefiting the AfD surging particularly in rural areas. And that support is shunting Germany to the right. FRATZSCHER:  Germany -- the German government is becoming more skeptical towards engaging with Europe. It`s changing its economic policy, its tax   policy. It`s cutting social benefits for people with low income. So indirectly the AfD is setting the policy. SHUKLA:  That prospect of success, policy wavering and economic fears is one of the root causes for consecutive weekends of protests from liberal   minded Germans, their aim, they say to ensure history does not repeat itself. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For our next story, we head to North Korea where it`s current leader, Kim Jong Un came to power in 2011 after his father`s death. Since   then women have taken on more leadership roles within this conservative country. That includes the North Korean leader sister, Kim Yo Jong, who has   become one of his, his closest advisors and the first woman to be featured prominently in North Korea`s international diplomacy. CNN`s Will Ripley   examines the women in this new power circle and what that means for the country`s next leader. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  North Korea`s most powerful man making an emotional appeal to women. Kim Jong-un   wiping away tears, urging moms to have more babies, to boost the plunging birth rate. Pyongyang`s patriarch persists, observers say, but things may   be changing in Kim`s Korea. The North Korean leader bringing powerful women into his orbit. Foreign Minister Choe Son-hui who recently met with Russian   President Vladimir Putin. Kim`s younger sister Kim Yo Jong, a close aid and trusted confidante, famous for fiery speeches. And this dramatic demolition of the Inter-Korean liaison office. The younger Kim`s meteoric rise likely fueled by her close brotherly bond and   powerful Kim family bloodline. The family photo that shook the world, the supreme leader revealing his daughter believed to be Kim Ju-ae at a missile   launch in late 2022, the first in a series of carefully staged father- daughter photo-ops, elevating the profile of Kim`s elementary-aged child, raising questions about succession. LEE SUNG-YOON, WILSON CENTER FELLOW:  Kim Jong Un is saying by appearing in public with his daughter, my nukes are here to stay, and my power will be   handed down to my progeny or maybe somebody else, his sibling. RIPLEY:  For three generations, the men of the Kim family ruling North Korea with an iron fist. Now, many wonder could a woman be next in line?   Could Kim be grooming his own daughter to someday take command of North Korea`s growing nuclear arsenal? LEE:  The power will be kept. This absolute power will maintain, will be maintained in the family. RIPLEY:  Whoever the next North Korean leader is, man or woman, Kim`s top priority, analysts say, protecting his family`s fortune and power. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Pop quiz, hot shot. Roughly, how big is the Hubble Space Telescope?  Is it about the size of a school bus, an airplane, a football field, a cruise ship? If you said school bus, put your hands up. The fame telescope that has captured spectacular views of cosmic objects in far away, galaxies is just   43 and a half feet long and 14 feet wide.  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, water discovered in an atmosphere 97 light years away. Astronomers have discovered evidence of water, the   element critical to the formation of life in the atmosphere of exoplanet GJ 9827d. It`s called an exoplanet because it orbits a star other than the   Earth`s sun. And this world closely orbits a red dwarf star more than 97 light years away from earth.  Now, it doesn`t look like we can even begin to identify this as a potential inhabitable place just yet because this planet has more acidity than you   could handle. The planet reaches temperatures of up to 800 degrees Fahrenheit. So this world is totally inhospitable to life as we know it,   but finding particles on such a small planet is significant and gives hope that further research might someday help us find other Earth-like worlds.  All right, superstars. It was great to be with you here today. Congratulations to Mr. Melby`s class at Beloit Memorial High School in   Wisconsin. And the Smith Family Homeschool in Ashland, Ohio for submitting #YourWordWednesday winner, apricity, a noun, meaning, the warmth of the sun   in winter. I know a lot of our viewers right now will take all the apricity they can get. Shout out time now. The Mustangs at Carusi Middle School in Cherry Hill, New Jersey, rise up. And this shout out goes to goes to Bethany High School   in the City of Bethany, Oklahoma, Bronchos, you rock. Thanks for spending part of your day with me and making this the best 10 minutes in news. I`m   Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-02-01
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, lovely people. Let`s rise up, lock in and take the next 10 minutes to fuel our minds. It`s Thursday, February 1st.   I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, happy Friday Eve. February marks two years since Russian president Vladimir Putin first ordered his troops into Ukraine for what he called a special military   operation to demilitarize the country. According to U.S. intelligence assessment, Russia has lost 87% of the 360,000 active-duty ground troops it   had prior to the start of the war. But they persist, Ukraine remains heavily dependent upon support in the form of funding and munitions from   its Western allies, including the United States.  But further U.S. support is not guaranteed as Congress remains divided on sending more taxpayer dollars to fund Ukraine`s war efforts. As CNN Fred   Pleitgen explains, the war is as intense as ever and seemingly far from over. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: In 2024, Russia`s war against Ukraine is as brutal as it ever has been. Both sides   are still taking heavy casualties and the battles are ferocious. The action has somewhat shifted though, from the south of the country, more towards   the Southeast and the east of the country. The Russians have unleashed another massive aerial campaign against sites here in Ukraine using drones,   ballistic missiles, and also cruise missiles.  The Ukrainians, though, now also fighting back, hitting some targets in Russia, like for instance, the Belgorod region, where there have been some   evacuations.  Western military support for Ukraine will continue to be essential for the country, but it is far from a certain thing, especially aid from the United   States where U.S. Congress still has not okayed further military aid for Ukraine.  There is the European Union where a decision on further military aid was blocked by the Hungarian. So it`s unclear when exactly that could come   through, even though the countries themselves, the single countries could continue to give Ukraine military aid and are continuing to do so.  The Russians certainly seem to have replenished their ranks after taking heavy losses in 2023. The Russians also appear to have new tanks and   armored vehicles. One of the other things that we`re seeing is that the Russians are firing a lot of artillery on the frontline and a different   picture for the Ukrainians, especially ammunition is something that they`re having a lot of trouble with. They certainly need those replenishment. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz, hot shot. Which of these words is associated with pigs. Boerboel, bovine, pachyderm, porcine?  If you pondered porcine, put your hooves up. While boerboel is a type of dog. Bovine relates to cattle and pachyderms are thick skinned, hoofed   animals like elephants, rhinos and hippos. Porcine relates to or suggests piggies.  For our next story, we turn to a controversial solution to an ongoing health dilemma. One for which pigs may be the answer. We`re talking organ   transplants. Now, each organ inside our body has a specific function, right? And sometimes due to disease accident or other reasons, it doesn`t   work properly and needs replacement. So during organ transplantation surgeons carefully remove a healthy organ from a donor and place it in the   body of someone in need.  It can be difficult to find a matching organ as there is a big gap between supply and demand for organs needed to save lives. But the company eGenesis   is working on a solution that might end organ shortage in the future. On their research farm, they`re raising pigs that could become organ donors in   the future. CNN Chief Medical Correspondent, Sanjay Gupta got a first look at a facility few other people have seen before. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): These pigs could one day provide a nearly endless supply of organs to save humans.   Mike Curtis is my guide today. He is CEO of eGenesis. That`s a company devoted to raising pigs to try and solve the organ shortage crisis. MIKE CURTIS, EGENESIS CEO: Everything`s controlled. Like all the feet is clean. Water`s clean, as you can see, the staff is clean. We try to   maintain a very clean environment here. GUPTA (on camera): And I should just point out that I walked into a room, turned on a filter, essentially clean the air for five minutes before I   could then go shower. That`s why my hair is wet. I`ve -- I`ve washed myself. I put on everything new here, including underwear, socks, shoes,   everything is different just to be in this room, gives you an idea of just how clean it is in here and how important that is. (Voice-over): It`s more than I typically do to prep for the operating room, all of it to protect the pigs from us. (On camera): I got to tell you, I did not know what to expect. It`s powerful just to be here with these pigs. (Voice-over): This pig has 69 different gene edits making it among the most genetically modified mammals on the planet.  They do all of this with the help of CRISPR, the gene editing tool that allows scientists to manipulate the cell`s DNA, knocking out or adding in   genes. In this case, to make a pig`s organs more compatible with the human recipient. CURTIS: We`ve selected the Yucatan mini pig because fully grown they`re about 70 kilos, 150 pounds, right? So there, the organs are correctly size   for human recipient. GUPTA: In January of 2022, for the first time in history, a team at the University of Maryland Medical Center, transplanted a genetically modified   pig heart into a living human being. It was allowed by the FDA`s compassionate use pathway for experimental treatments. Something used when   a patient has no other options left. CURTIS: A patient imminently facing death. Why wouldn`t you try. GUPTA: But how far are we still to this becoming a reality? CURTIS: I think for the right patient, I -- we`re going to see it in the next couple of years.  GUPTA: Pigs that could save human lives. (On camera): It`s really extraordinary science. I mean the culmination of all these Nobel prize discoveries, but it comes with its ethical challenges   as well. How much should we be manipulating the genome and of another species? How much should we be relying on animals to preserve and protect   human life? I mean, these are ethical challenges and even the facility that you just saw there, we couldn`t tell you exactly where it was located   because there have been security concerns.  But at the same time, this is happening. And as you heard, it`s happening pretty quickly, perhaps over the next couple of years, we`re going to hear   more and more about animal organs being transplanted into humans. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Let`s turn now to another controversial tech innovation in health, Elon Musk company, Neuralink implanted a chip in a human brain for the   first time this week.  Neuralink has been working toward using implants to connect the human brain to a computer for half a decade. And the company says their current goal is   to grant people the ability to control a computer cursor or keyboard using their thoughts alone. Tech Reporter, Sarah McBride shares the scoop on   exactly what this coin size device can do. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) SARAH MCBRIDE, BLOOMBERG NEWS REPORTER: So this is a tiny device about the size of a quarter with a bunch of threads coming off it with tiny, tiny   electrodes attached to the threads. And the idea is surgeons go into somebody`s skull, open up their dura and their brain, put the device in   there, make sure the electrodes go down a few millimeters into the brain. So everything back up and there`s a battery pack in it. It will recharge   wirelessly and it will communicate wirelessly with an outside device that can control, say a computer cursor or an iPad. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Elon Musk says the inaugural patient is recovering well, but offered few details. Besides a QR code that adults can scan to sign up for the   surgery, the tweet also encouraged patients with spinal cord injuries or ALS to apply. It`s unclear how significant this advancement is   scientifically, but this could be a milestone for the innovative company`s efforts to create life changing technology. Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, reports of a great white shark giving birth in the wild for the very first time. Scientists believe sharks first   appeared on the earth 455 million years ago. So it`s pretty remarkable that this could be a first. The footage you`re seeing right here shot by a drone   off the coast of Southern California might be the first sighting of a great white shark newborn baby in the wild.  It was recorded by wildlife filmmaker, Carlos Gauna and doctoral biology, student Philip Stearns, who recorded their observations in a peer reviewed   study published this week. They admit there needs to be additional evidence to confirm. We are indeed looking at a newborn great white shark. The study   suggests that an alternative explanation could be that we`re looking at a shark with an unknown skin disorder.  A baby shark is called a pup. Did you know?  All right, baby, shout out time now. Let`s send some love to Lebanon, Connecticut in the perfect people at Lebanon Middle School. Panthers, put   your post up.  And this shout out goes to the Blue Streaks of Harrisonburg High School in Harrisonburg, Virginia, rise up. Thanks for learning with me today. Let`s   do it again tomorrow. Shall we?  I`m Coy Wire. And we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-02-02
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello sunshine. Happy Friday, Friyay. It`s February 2nd, Groundhog`s Day. Let`s go fast. Let`s go fun. Get you all   kinds of knowledge and information in the best 10 minutes in news. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, where we tell you the what, letting you decide what   to think.  Chief executives of some of the biggest social media companies testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee this week in front of some families   who say they`ve lost loved ones because of social media.  Executives of Meta, TikTok, Snap, Discord, and X, formerly known as Twitter, were peppered with difficult questions about the risks that their   products may pose to young people. We`ll turn to CNN`s Tom Foreman, who highlights this tense hearing.  And as we watch, try to think critically about this dilemma. Who all is responsible for the harm that can be caused by social media companies   platforms? What would you suggest that the companies themselves and users can do to maybe mitigate the risks involved? Should Congress pass laws to   protect users? What would you do to make these platforms safer?  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM, (R-SC):  But you have blood on your hands. SEN. JOSH HAWLEY, (R-MO):  Your product is killing people. Will you set up a victims` compensation fund with your money? The money you made on these   families sitting behind you. Yes or no? TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over):  Mark Zuckerberg, founder of Facebook, whose company owns Instagram, pushed into apologizing to families   who say they were harmed by online content, some waving pictures of children who died or killed themselves. It was an astonishing moment, yet the billionaire head of Meta dug in anyway. MARK ZUCKERBERG, META CEO:  And this is why we invested so much and we are going to continue doing industry-leading efforts to make sure that no one   has to go through the types of things your families have had to suffer.  SEN. SHELDON WHITEHOUSE, (D-OH):  Your platforms really suck at policing themselves. FOREMAN:  Against a torrent of accusations from the Senate committee about enabling sexual exploitation, election meddling, fake news, drug abuse and   child endangerment, the heads of five tech giants tried to push back. JASON CITRON, CEO, DISCORD:  We very much believe that this content is disgusting. LINDA YACCARINO, X CEO:  X will be active and a part of this solution. FOREMAN:  But the fury kept coming in a rare show of unity between Democrats -- SEN. AMY KLOBUCHAR, (D-MN):  One-third of fentanyl cases investigated over five months had direct ties to social media. FOREMAN:  -- and Republicans. HAWLEY:  37$ of teenage girls between 13 and 15 were exposed to unwanted nudity in a week on Instagram. You knew about it. Who did you fire? ZUCKERBERG:  Senator, this is why we`re building all these rules. HAWLEY:  Who did you fire? ZUCKERBERG:  I`m not going to answer that. FOREMAN:  There was plenty of heat to go around as the tech bosses were scorched with claims their products promoting anxiety, depression and   violence, especially among young people. SEN. MARSHA BLACKBURN, (R-TN):  Children are not your priority. Children are your product. FOREMAN:  But no one was hit harder than Zuckerberg, whose attempts at defense at times were literally laughed at. ZUCKERBERG:  My understanding is that we don`t allow sexually explicit content on the service for people of any age. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  How is that going? ZUCKERBERG:  You know, our -- SEN. CHRIS COONS, (D-DE):  Is there any one of you willing to say now that you support this bill? FOREMAN:  Many of the lawmakers are intent on overturning a longstanding federal law that immunizes those companies from lawsuits over user-  generated content and putting tough regulations in place. KLOBUCHAR:  It`s time to actually pass them. And the reason they haven`t passed is because of the power of your company. So, let`s be really, really   clear about that. FOREMAN:  And while the tech bosses say they`re happy to work on safeguards skepticism ran rampant. GRAHAM:  Nothing will change until the courtroom door is open to victims of social media. FOREMAN:  Sometimes in hearings like this, lawmakers seem like they just don`t understand how tech really works. But, they do understand human   suffering. They know the political power of that. And they know how to count votes, as one of them noted today, and Big Tech could be on the wrong   side of the next one and facing regulations like never before.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Pop quiz hot shot.  In the U.S., women make up what percentage of licensed pilots?  Fewer than 10%, fewer than 20%, nearly 50%, nearly 75%. Answer is fewer than 10%, according to a recent Women in Aviation Advisory Board report for the Federal Aviation Administration.  A team of underwater archeologists and marine robotics experts believe they found a clue to what happened to aviation legend Amelia Earhart, who`s   plain mysteriously went missing 87 years ago. Earhart was a pilot who broke both gender stereotypes and aviation records, becoming the first woman to   fly solo across the Atlantic Ocean, and first pilot to fly solo and nonstop across the U.S.  Her final flight on July 2nd, 1937, became one of the greatest unsolved mysteries in American history. She had an ambitious goal to become the   first woman to fly around the world and made it two thirds of the way. Then Amelia`s plane went missing. But as CNN`s Jeremy Roth explains, a group of   deep-sea explorers believe they found the plane.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEREMY ROTH, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  A group of Deep-Sea explorers say a sonar image captured in the middle of the Pacific Ocean may reveal Amelia   Earhart`s long-lost final flight. Using cutting-edge sonar imaging tech, the South Carolina-based Deep Sea Vision team scanned more than 5,000 miles   of ocean floor before capturing an image showing an anomaly more than 16,000 feet underwater that matches the size and features of the Lockheed   10-E Electra Earhart was piloting when the pioneering aviator went missing nearly 87 years ago.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The twin vertical stabilizers in the back are very clear on the sonar image and those were very distinctive of Amelia   Earhart`s aircraft and we were very happy to see those.  ROTH:  At this point, the findings are still speculative, but have already attracted the attention of prominent aviation experts who say the   intriguing findings warrant a return expedition. The Deep Sea Vision team hopes more information could help them bring closure to one of American   history`s great mysteries.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, Groundhog Day, every year on February 2nd, an event dating back to the 19th Century takes place in my   home State of Pennsylvania in the town of Punxsutawney, the so-called Weather Capital of the World.  Members of the local Groundhog Club, yes, they`re such a thing, dress in hats and tuxedos and await the hero of the day. Punxsutawney Phil. The   crowd gathers to see whether Phil will see his shadow upon arising from his burrow.  According to old Pennsylvania Dutch superstition, if he does, it means six more weeks of winter. If not, it`s said that spring will come early. Our   meteorologist Allison Chinchar is here for more details. And you may remember, Ms. Alli always matches her graphics or the weather theme of the   day and for this special day, she breaks out her famous Punxsutawney Phil hat.  ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  That`s right Coy. Today is the day, the famous Punxsutawney Phil will make his predictions for whether or not   we will have six more weeks of winter or perhaps in early spring.  Now, in the past he has had a wide variety of predictions, but here`s the thing. He has seen his shadow way more times than he has not. You`re   talking over a hundred times. He has seen his shadow just since 1887. About a fifth of that he has not seen his shadow, meaning we would have an early   spring.  But the real question is, is he accurate? Is he even right when he makes these predictions? Technically speaking, statistically Phil is only right   about 40% of the time, so not exactly a great forecaster, but the good news is, regardless of what Phil actually picks, if you don`t like it, chances   are there`s another groundhog across the country somewhere that will give you the prediction you do want to hear, including some pretty colorful   names like General Beauregard Lee in Georgia, Staten Island Chuck in New York, Illinois, Wisconsin and Ohio also have some very interesting name   groundhogs, which will also make their predictions later today.  WIRE:  Thank you, Alli. You got to let me borrow that hat one day.  All right, lovely people. Thanks for learning with me this week. And I appreciate all the love for those who found me on social media. And for   those of you who sent me some mail, our CNN Overlook Mailbox is full.  I want to give a special shout out today. This one goes to Fort Sam Houston School in San Antonio, Texas. Thank you for the swag and all the   autographs, Cougars, we see you. This makes my heart smile.  And this shout out goes to Belle Chasse High School and all the Fighting Cardinals in Belle Chasse, Louisiana. Rise up, Superstars. All right, go on   out and shine bright from your small corner of the earth this weekend. Even if it`s just a smile, you can be the love that someone needs.  Remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire. It`s been a blessing to learn this week with you. END     

Date: 2024-02-05
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, sunshine. It is Monday. Happy to start the week with you, lovely people. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, where we tell   you the what, letting you decide what to think.  We`re going to get right into it today. We start in the Middle East as U.S. and Iranian leadership are playing a delicate game of diplomacy in testing   relationships in the region. Officials are reporting increasing concerns about proxy malicious in Iraq, Syria, and Yemen, who threatened to disrupt   the global economy. In Jordan, a recent drone attack killed three American soldiers. And in Yemen, Houthi militant attacks have targeted commercial ships in the Red   Sea.  Here`s our Oren Liebermann to explain why the U.S. is striking the region. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: For the third time in recent weeks, the U.S. and the U.K. carried out joint strikes against Houthi   targets in Yemen. This time, the coalition airstrikes targeted 36 targets across 13 different locations in Yemen. As the U.S. and the U.K. backed by   a coalition of Australia, Bahrain, Denmark, Canada, the Netherlands, and New Zealand try to disrupt the ability of the Iran-backed rebel group to   target international shipping lanes in the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden. The U.S. went after underground storage facilities, command and control, missile systems, drone storage and operation sites, radars, and helicopters   of the Houthis. So, in that target list, you see the effort of the U.S. to try to disrupt the abilities of the Houthis to continue to attack commercial vessels as   well as U.S. warships.  It`s also worth noting this is the first time we have seen the U.S. strike Iraq and Syria simultaneously. The U.S. carrying out strikes at seven locations across Iraq and Syria, more precisely four in Syria, three in Iraq, targeting 85 different targets   and using more than a 125 precision guided weapons. That is an order of magnitude more powerful that the strikes we`ve seen the U.S. carry out in Iraq and Syria over the course of the last several   months.  The U.S. had made it clear it wasn`t trying to start a war with Iran here and very much trying to avoid that possibility. So, no strikes in Iran   directly. But very much going after Iran`s proxies in the region and the ability of the proxies to carry out attacks on U.S. forces. Worth noting, these strikes, of course, come five days after a drone attack in the region killed three U.S. service members in Jordan and wounded   scores more. But it`s not just that. There have been more than 160 attacks on U.S. forces in the region and this was effectively a more powerful response to   all of that. And yet there`s no expectation that this is the end of it. President Joe Biden saying there could very well be more to come. And   Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin being more blunt on this in a statement after, saying this is the start of our response. The key question here, of course, what does the rest of that response look like? And where does it play out?  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz, hot shot, which of these animals is the largest rodent in North America?  Squirrel, Muskrat, Marmot, or Beaver?  If you said, Beaver, put your tails up. North America`s largest rodent typically weighs between 35 and 65 pounds and comes in at three to four   feet long. But capybaras in South America are the largest rodents in the whole world.  Let`s hop on across the pond to the wetlands of England, where the Eurasian beaver, a species hunted to extinction are returning to London for the   first time in 400 years. CNN`s Anna Stewart introduces us to the family of five that was relocated from Scotland to West London in hopes of rebuilding   the country`s lost beaver population. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANNA STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): This is the moment that a family of five Eurasian beavers happily settled in to their new home. SEAN MCCORMACK, VET AND CONSERVATIONIST: It`s been a massive day. I am so excited. It`s a bit of a weird, surreal moment to know these beavers now   living in Urban Greenford in Ealing behind me. I have to admit my heart was going like the clappers when I opened that first box and big mama beaver   came out. She is a whopper. They did fantastically, I was absolutely thrilled. They came out, they showboated in front of the world`s media. It`s only, you know, a few   generations ago that they were exterminated and yes, it was a real proud moment to see them swimming around here in this main pond at Paradise   Fields again like they had never been absent. STEWART (voice-over): Hunted to extinction over 400 years ago, Britain`s largest rodent was welcomed back to a wetland haven on the outskirts of the   capital, adjacent to a retail park and a busy highway. The project has been done with the support of the Mayor Sadiq Khan`s "Rewild London Fund." SADIQ KHAN, MAYOR OF LONDON: One of the reasons why we have invested millions of pounds in this project is it`s good for humans, it`s good for   nature, it`s good for our city. It`s really important to create environments like this where we as Londoners can appreciate nature. MCCORMACK: 84% of people now in the U.K. live in towns or cities. So we can`t think of nature and thriving ecosystems as being a countryside issue.   Actually we need to embrace nature and nature-based solutions on our doorstep in cities as well. STEWART (voice-over): One month on and the beaver family is already having a positive impact on the local habitat. MCCORMACK: So we are in almost a low-lying basin, surrounded by urban landscape and heart standing and roads, and things like that. In high   rainfall event, we`re getting flooding of this area and the water is basically gushing through and it`s going into the storm drain systems and   into the sewers and it`s gushing out in Urban Greenford downstream. STEWART (voice-over): Sean McCormack from Ealing Wildlife Group believes that nature has the answer. MCCORMACK: So here it is, they are magnificent creation, their first dam. So absolutely incredible, this started as just a couple of twigs across the   stream bed and as you can see now, you know, we`ve got almost a meter difference in height between the water upstream and the water downstream. STEWART (voice-over): Beavers create dams under the cover of darkness, not because they care about urban flooding, they have an instinct to create   pools of deep water to hide in. The happy consequence for us is that their refuge systems actually slow down the flow of water. MCCORMACK: The land will actually, overtime, act as a giant sponge and it will absorb those high rainfall events and it will release it slowly.  Even if you`re not interested in wildlife or nature, it is a win for the urban community in Greenford to not have so much flooding. So they build   resilience in the landscape especially in times of climate change.  I`ve been in a very privileged position to be coming in here every day, on my own or with a pair of volunteers at a time and seeing it for myself. But   I think the real proud moment will come when we are showing the urban community here in Ealing just what beavers can do. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a trailblazer starting each week, this black history month, we`re going to be highlighting seminal   black figures who transformed America in profound ways. First up, civil rights activist, Sadie Tanner Mossell Alexander in 1921, Alexander became   the first black person to earn a PhD in economics in the country. Then she later became the first black woman to graduate from the University of   Pennsylvania`s law school and to practice law in the state.  She shattered so many glass ceilings all while facing racial prejudice. During her first year in college, she was told she couldn`t check books out   of the school library, but she persisted and remained a champion of equal rights throughout her life.  Here she is in 1947, right next to President Harry Truman, who appointed Alexander to his committee on civil rights, which became the backbone for   the movement over the next decade. And another American difference maker getting today`s 10 out of 10 inventor, Garrett Morgan in 1916, he patented a precursor to the gas mass   used by soldiers during the first world war. He hired a white actor to pretend to be the inventor. So as to avoid any possible racism of potential   buyers.  But one invention that many of us see each and every day, Garrett was the person who came up with the idea of a three-signal traffic light. That`s   right. He thought, you know, there should probably be a yellow light in there. So people know when to slow their roll. We are going to go full   green light, though, on our shoutouts for today.  Let me hear a roar for the talented Tigers at Plaza Middle School in Kansas City. Thank you for subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube   Channel. And this shout out goes to Colchester High School in Vermont, home of the Lakers, keep crashing Colchester, rise up. See you tomorrow, lovely people.   I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-02-06
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  We are here at this Sphere, Vegas, baby. I`m Coy Wire. Welcome to CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news.  We`re in Las Vegas all week, revving up with a Super Bowl between the 49ers and the Swifties, I mean, the Chiefs. We`re going to be bringing all sorts   of fun coverage of the big game all week long.  We start today, though, on Capitol Hill where the Senate revealed a long awaited 118 billion bipartisan deal to address the migrant crisis after   Southern border, as well as foreign aid package for Ukraine, Israel, and Taiwan.  Let`s first turn to CNN Congressional Correspondent Lauren Fox, who breaks down what is in this proposed bill. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) LAUREN FOX, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  After months of negotiations, what the bipartisan Senate group came to terms with is a change in the way   that the U.S. would ultimately handle asylum claims at the southern border. Specifically, they would raise the threshold of who would qualify to even   begin the asylum process. They are also trying to move more expeditiously to ensure that what used to take years would now only take about six months. They are also introducing   this new emergency border authority which essentially says, if border crossings reach a weekly average daily threshold of 5,000, that the   administration must shut down the southern border.  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Now, despite the bipartisan cooperation on this legislation, it`ll be tough to get this bill passed. How Speaker Mike Johnson already   proclaimed that this bill would be, quote, "dead on arrival" if it reaches the House as many Republicans believe this bill does not crack down hard   enough on illegal immigration.  As you can tell, the border situation has turned into a divisive issue, especially as we`re in an election year. And the policy fight has spread   beyond Capitol hill and the campaign trail. Our Rosa Flores reports from Eagle Pass, Texas, where a week`s long standoff over border security issues   continue between the State of Texas and the Biden administration. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over):  Eagle Pass looks like a warzone. Texas Governor Greg Abbott ordering miles of razor wire placed along the Rio Grande and around a public park to block migrants like this group of   Venezuelans from entering the U.S. (On camera):  They are trying to turn themselves in to immigration authorities. (Voice over):  Texas shutting down 2.5 miles of border in Maverick County and denying US Border Patrol access. GOV. GREG ABBOTT (R-TX):  Texas, very simply, is securing the border. FLORES (voice over):  County Sheriff Tom Schmerber says that Texas takeover puts local officials in a tough spot. TOM SCHMERBER, COUNTY SHERIFF:  It is creating some kind of a problem for us because we cannot get, like, in the middle. FLORES (voice over):  The weeks` long standoff between Texas and the Biden administration over command and control of the border in Eagle Pass has   turned into a partisan rally cry. GOV. RON DESANTIS (R-FL):  And now, it is as bad as it`s ever been at the southern border. FLORES (voice over):  Dozens of Republican governors and attorneys general from around the nation and former President Donald Trump`s side with Texas. DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  I want to express our thanks to Governor Greg Abbott. FLORES (voice over):  House Speaker Mike Johnson also said: "I stand with Governor Abbott." The last time Congress passed comprehensive immigration reform, it was 1986 and Ronald Reagan was president. RONALD REAGAN, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  The most comprehensive reform immigration law since 1962. FLORES (voice over):  And while a bipartisan group of senators are pushing for a border deal now, the bill appears to be dead on arrival in the House,   much of it due to the strong opposition from former President Donald Trump. TRUMP:  This is a terrible bill. Terrible bill for our country. FLORES (voice over):  Sheriff Schmerber from his neighborhood at Eagle Pass is calling out Trump for lobbying against a bill that both parties say is   the toughest border security legislation in decades. FLORES (on camera):  Would you blame President Trump if the deal doesn`t go through? SCHMERBER:  Yes, because it`s going to hurt us. You know, I see that as political. President Trump, it is just self-interest. FLORES (voice over):  Magali Urbina, a Republican with riverfront property in Eagle Pass that is lined with razor wire says the border deal falls   short of fixing the issue. (On camera):  Former President Trump has been lobbying against that bill. Do you agree with him? MAGALI URBINA, EAGLE PASS LAND OWNER:  I do agree with him. Actually, I believe that when Trump was president, having them remain in Mexico, I   think that helps. FLORES (voice over):  Meanwhile, in Eagle Pass standoffs like this -- UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (Speaking in foreign language.) TRANSLATION:  We are asking for human rights. FLORES (voice over):  Between the group of Venezuelan migrants already on U.S. soil and state police. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (Speaking in foreign language.) TRANSLATION:  You have to return to Mexico. FLORES (voice over):  Are daily occurrences that don`t stop illegal immigration, instead just delay it for a few hours or a few days. FLORES (on camera):  Texas Governor Greg Abbott hosted about a dozen governors from across the country here in Eagle Pass, in Shelby Park,   inside the takeover zone, the zone that was taken over by the State of Texas a few weeks ago. And what`s extraordinary about this visit is that   Governor Abbott and these governors are advocating for states to enforce immigration policy. Now, what`s extraordinary about that is that the U.S.   Supreme court has upheld that immigration is a federal function.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Pop quiz hot shot.  In 1998, the Good Friday Agreement was signed to end a decades long struggle in this part of the United Kingdom? England, Northern Ireland, Wales, or Scotland. The Good Friday Agreement or Belfast Agreement brought an end to 30 years of violent conflict in Northern Ireland that had come to be known as, "The   Troubles."  Now, just a few days ago, Northern Ireland`s first ever Irish nationalist, Michelle O`Neill became the leader of the country`s government. Her party,   Sinn Fein, was once the political arm of the Irish Republican army, which sought to reunite with the rest of Ireland.  According to the Good Friday Accords O`Neill will share power with a Deputy First Minister from the Unionist Party, a group that desires to remain a   part of the United Kingdom. ITN`s Kathryn Samson explains how this new government hopes to serve all of Northern Ireland. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KATHRYN SAMSON, ITN SCOTLAND CORRESPONDENT (voice over):  And it was a historic moment for Sinn Fein`s Michelle O`Neill cheered into the chamber   by supporters, the first nationalist or Republican to ever be appointed First Minister of Northern Ireland. MICHELLE O`NEILL, FIRST MINISTER OF NORTHERN IRELAND:  Today opens the door to a future, a sure future. I am honored to stand here as first minister.   We mark a moment of equality and a moment of progress, a new opportunity to work and to grow together. SAMSON:  This day, she said, would have been unimaginable to her grandparents, made possible by the Good Friday Agreement. Michelle   O`Neill`s father was an IRA prisoner, and she has attended memorials for former members. But she has pledged to show respect to the royal family and cooperate with colleagues who cherish the union. O`NEILL:  This is an assembly all Catholic, Protestant and a center. I am sorry for all the lives lost during the conflict without exception. The   past cannot be changed or cannot undone, but what we can do, what we all can do, is build a better future. I will never ask anyone to move on but I   really do hope that we can all move forward. SAMSON:  The DUP, who collapsed dormant exactly two years ago in protests over Brexit trade rules, today nominated as deputy first minister. Emma   Little-Pengelly`s family also has links to "The Troubles." Her father was convicted for his role in a loyalist plot. In her speech, she spoke of   remembering the devastation from an IRA bomb. EMMA LITTLE-PENGELLY, DEPUTY FIRST MINISTER OF NORTHERN IRELAND:  Michelle O`Neill and I come from very different backgrounds. But regardless of that,   for my part, I will work tirelessly to ensure that we can deliver for all in Northern Ireland. SAMSON:  The post of deputy first minister has equal power but less symbolic weight. Some unionists have found Michelle O`Neill`s appointment   hard to bear. JIM ALLISTER, LEADER, TRADITIONAL UNIONISTVOICE:  We have a Sinn Fein first minister, but not in my name, nor in the name of thousands of unionists who   will never bow the knee to IRA Sinn Fein. SAMSON:  It`s been a very long road to reach this point. But many hope it will be a platform to start fixing things. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, some dazzling new images from the James Webb Space Telescope. It captured these 19 spiral galaxies using   near and mid-infrared technology that highlights stars and glowing dust in a level of detail astronomers have never seen before. Now, galaxies come in all different shapes and sizes, right? But spiral galaxies are those that look like giant pinwheel. They have these long arms   reaching out of the bright center stars and the main ingredients to form them. Gas and dust are inside these arms.  Astronomers believe about 60% of all galaxies are spiral shaped, including our very own galaxy, the Milky Way. I love space.  I wanted to put a mini observatory in my house, but the costs were astronomical. So I just checked out a book on anti-gravity. I can`t put it   down.  All right, you super stars. Remember #YourWordWednesday is tomorrow. Submit your unique vocabulary word today in the comment section of my most recent   post @coywire on social, and we`re going to choose a fun winner to work into tomorrow show. Good luck.  Shout out time now. Let`s go to Bluffton, South Carolina, shout out to the Bobcats at Bluffton High School, rise up. And this shout out goes to Weld Central Middle School in Keenesburg, Colorado, go Rebels, going out and making an awesome Monday lovely people.   And we`ll see you right back here tomorrow. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2024-02-07
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, lovely people. I`m Coy Wire here in Las Vegas. And so glad to spend this Wednesday, hump day with you. Welcome to   CNN 10, your CNN 10, especially on a #YourWordWednesday. See if your vocab word made today`s show.  We`re going to start today in California, where a settlement will steer 2 billion to help students who fell behind in their education during the   pandemic. Our Nick Watt has more for us on why parents, students, and community groups sued for this money and how it`ll be used. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NICK WATT, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: With this settlement, you know, you`re not -- no one`s cutting you a check. KELLY R., LAWSUIT PLAINTIFF: No. WATT: You`re not getting any money? KELLY R.: I have not, but I`m hoping that the kids will benefit. All kids will benefit from this. WATT (voice-over): Kelly R., still struggling to help her kids catch up in math, is among the parents, teachers, kids and community groups who sued   California and won a settlement. The state just agreed to spend $2 billion on tutors, extended school days, mental health support, and more for kids who suffered most during remote   learning, predominantly low-income black and Latino kids, who are now not bouncing back as fast as kids in whiter more-affluent districts. MARK ROSENBAUM, ATTORNEY: The most pressing crisis in America today is what happened to kids during COVID. And hopefully, this settlement will be a   model for 49 other states. WATT: During COVID, Kelly`s kids at least had a parent who tried her best and some Internet.  KELLY R.: Their computers were glitchy. So then that`s when I would have to at that point, go over some of their lessons with them, while I`m working   from home. WATT: In California, around 10,000 schools were closed. ROSENBAUM: There were between 800,000 to a million kids who had no digital access whatsoever. What does that mean? It doesn`t mean they got bad   education means they got no education. WATT: School-age kids were among those at lowest risk of serious illness from COVID-19 but suffered a lot from the restrictions to stem the spread. THOMAS KANE, PROFESSOR, HARVARD UNIVERSITY: We`re asking poor kids to pay for the public health measures that were meant to, you know, benefit us   all. WATT: Professor Thomas Kane and colleagues at Harvard, Stanford, and Dartmouth found many more affluent kids have already regained a lot of the   learning they lost during COVID. But -- KANE: In some places, like here in Massachusetts, the high-poverty districts did the opposite of catching up last year. They actually lost   additional ground. WATT: Some they fear might never catch up, given what was lost during COVID and systemic educational inequities that existed long before we had ever   heard of COVID-19. (On camera): As a white guy, I`ve always kind of, you know, assumed possibly rightly that my kids are going to get a fair shake. But as a black   parent, do you feel differently than, you know, you are at a disadvantage? KELLY R.: We are at a dis -- and that`s one of them major reasons why I felt like this was important because we cannot continue to let things like   does happen and let our kids fall short. I`m hopeful that this will make a huge impact. WATT: You say you`re hopeful? KELLY R.: Yes. WATT: I sensed a slight tinge of doubt. KELLY R.: It hasn`t happened yet. So I could just be hopeful in the -- until it happens. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia. Which stage of life is ADHD or Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, usually first diagnosed? Childhood, teen years, adulthood or elderly? According to the CDC, ADHD is usually first diagnosed in childhood, but often last into adulthood.  All right, if you`re a TikTok user, you might have seen mental health pop up as a popular topic on the platform. But as your teachers might tell you,   don`t always trust what you see online. Researchers from the University of British Columbia studied the most popular TikTok videos about the   neurodevelopmental disorder, ADHD, and found that more than half of them contained misleading information.  CNN`s Lacey Russell explains why you might want to astute those videos, that claim that they can help you self-diagnose. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KELLY B., TIKTOKER: Five less well-known ADHD behaviors with doodles. Let`s go. Number one, listening to the same song on repeat until you are --  LACEY RUSSELL, CNN PRODUCER: If you`ve seen videos like this or this, chances are that you`ve wondered into the world of ADHD TikTok. ADHD or   Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder is one of the most common neurodevelopmental disorders in childhood. According to the CDC, people   with ADHD may be hyperactive or have trouble paying attention or controlling impulsive behaviors.  Dr. Anthony Yeung is a Clinical Psychiatrist with the University of British Columbia and has a particular interest in ADHD. He and his colleagues   became intrigued when they started to notice an influx of patients seeking help for their focus and concentration. All of which coincided he says with   the rising popularity of so-called ADHD TikTok.  So Yeung and his team set out to look at what kind of information was being shared, what they found was shocking. More than half of the top 100 most   popular videos at the time about ADHD contained misleading information. DR. ANTHONY YEUNG, CLINICAL PSYCHIATRIST, UNIVERSITY OF BRITISH COLUMBIA: I think the whole conversation around mental health, of course, has changed   for the better, in the sense that people are actually quite open and honest about talking about their individual struggles.  AMILY ANNE, TIKTOKER: I don`t know why I`m crying. YEUNG: But the challenge or the flip side of it is that it almost becomes, talked about term in the popular sphere where clinical terms might start to   get misused. For example, there was one video that talked about object permanence in ADHD. OLIVIA LUTFALLAH, TIKTOKER: Remember we talked about how I have ADHD, so I also have object permanence issues. Yeah, it`s like an out of sight out to   mind thing.  YEUNG: The term object permanence really has nothing much to do with ADHD. Object permanence is really a more fundamental developmental concept for   babies. And it`s really whether or not the babies understand that people still exist. If you can`t see them or hear them. There`s another term   that`s very commonly used something called like rejection sensitivity dysphoria.  DR. SHAWN: Yeah, did you know that 100% of people with ADHD experience rejection sensitivity dysphoria goes what`s that --  YEUNG: And if you actually really dive down into even where this term came from, it`s a term proposed by one -- one psychiatrist, but it`s not a   universally accepted term and it`s certainly not a term, that I would say the vast majority of psychiatrists use. RUSSELL: Yeung worries that for people who have ADHD, the trend of self- diagnosis could potentially lead to more stigmatization of the condition around, 10% of children in the U.S. have been diagnosed with ADHD, the CDC   estimates.  YEUNG: This has happened historically in the past where people would more commonly say things like I`m so OCD, I`m so bipolar.  KRISTY LEE, TIKTOKER: I am so ADHD.  YEUNG: If everybody starts identifying themselves as having ADHD, you know, if like 10% becomes 20%, becomes 30 becomes 50, becomes 60%, then really   what is the disorder that we`re talking about here where are we drawing the line. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: All right today`s story getting a 10 out of 10. We`ve got a story that`s a bit of a catastrophe. At least for a judge at a cat show in Mesa,   Arizona. One particular cat in the show got a bit perplexed on the judge got more than she bargained for. Our Jeanne Moos takes us inside the black   cat, smacked down. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT: They get stroked. They get lifted. They get stretched. They get their tails touched. No wonder a two-  year-old named Ludwig von Beethoven lost his composure. He even slapped the judge. Veteran Judge Vicki Nye says she fondly refers to the video --  VICKI NYE, JUDGE, CAT`S FANCIERS` ASSOCIATION: -- is the black cat smack down. MOOS: The pedigreed show cats are accustomed to the commotion of a show like this one in Mesa, Arizona organized by the Cat Fanciers` Association.   But Beethoven was a first timer competing in the household pet category. NYE: That one was just terrifying. When you see the eyes going like that. MOOS: And, though, Vicki gave him plenty of compliments, NYE: Beautiful coat, shiny, nice green eyes. MOOS: Beethoven turned on her, though, the judge didn`t even get scratched.  NYE: I need the owner now. MOOS: Contestant 177 in the background was freaked. Did you actually attack a judge? Vicki says she`s only been bitten twice in 35 years of judging.  OK. So this slap may not compare with say the famous Oscar slap as for Beethoven.  (On camera): So this cat did not get a ribbon? NYE: No, this -- that kitty was actually disqualified. MOOS: His owner said, sorry, but for the feline Beethoven, the Cat Show see more cacophony than symphony. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Looks like this Beethoven, couldn`t compose himself.  Thanks to Mrs. Max`s AP World History class in Lakeside High School in Lake Elsinore, California for submitting our #YourWordWednesday winner,   "Eschew," a verb, meaning to abstain or keep away from shun or avoid. Well done.  We`re not going to eschew any of you. Shout out time to the stars at Muhlenberg North Middle School in Powderly, Kentucky. Keep shining, baby.  And this shout out goes to -- wait a minute, wait for it, Waitsburg High School in Waitsburg, Washington. Fly high Cardinals. Thanks to all of you,   much love and many blessings. I`m Coy Wire. See you tomorrow right here on CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-02-08
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up, sunshine. It`s time to shine. I`m Coy Wire. Pun to be here with you this Thursday, happy Friday Eve. We are at   Super Bowl Radio Row where more than 6,000 credential media for more than 20 countries are here to report on the first ever Super Bowl in Las Vegas,   Nevada.  Now, speaking of Nevada, this state, as well as the Virgin Islands will be holding Republican Party caucuses today. Now, there was a Nevada GOP   primary on Tuesday, but Republicans have chosen to award their delegates through today`s caucuses.  Former President Donald Trump is currently in the lead for his party`s nomination. And his biggest fight may not be on the campaign trail during   the Republican primaries.  But in the courtroom earlier this week, a federal appeals court said that Trump is not immune from prosecution for federal election subversion   charges. This ruling is a blow to Trump`s argument that his actions in 2020 were part of his official duties as president and are therefore protected   from criminal trials.  Trump faces four counts in the election subversion case, which includes conspiring to defraud the United States and to obstruct an official   proceeding. He has pleaded not guilty. Now, the timing of this trial will be up to the Supreme Court. Trump`s defense team hopes to delay his   criminal cases until after the 2024 election.  Now, speaking of the Supreme Court, that leads us to another legal fight for Trump. Today, the nation`s highest court will hear oral arguments on   whether states can remove Trump from election ballots.  Last year Colorado`s State Supreme Court ruled Trump is constitutionally ineligible to run in 2024 because of the 14th Amendment`s ban on   insurrectionists holding office covers his conduct on January 6th, 2021. And they aren`t the only state looking to remove the former president from   election ballots. The last time the Supreme Court was at the center of a presidential election battle was back in 2000 where their ruling delivered   the presidency to Republican George W. Bush by halting a Florida vote recount.  There`s a lot to unpack with these cases, but let`s turn now to our Legal Analyst, Elie Honig who looks at what the Supreme Court justices will and   won`t be deciding in the Trump ballot eligibility case. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ELIE HONIG, CNN SENIOR LEGAL ANALYST: Don`t expect the Supreme Court to decide whether Donald Trump did or did not engage in insurrection. I`ll   explain why in a moment. You probably know by now that the 14th Amendment says that anyone who is engaged in insurrection cannot hold office. And that Colorado has   disqualified Donald Trump from its ballot under that provision.  Now, here`s what the Supreme Court will be asking about. Donald Trump`s team will argue that while the 14th Amendment does specify certain offices,   senators, representatives, and others, it actually says nothing specifically about the president. Colorado is going to counter that. Yes,   but the 14th Amendment actually does say it applies to officers of the United States. This will be a close call. It`ll come down to how the   justices choose to interpret those words in the constitution.  Watch for Trump`s team to argue that it`s up to Congress and not the individual states to decide whether and how to apply the 14th Amendment.   Colorado will argue that the states have the power to enforce the 14th Amendment.  The problem here is if the Supreme Court allows the states to make these decisions on their own, we could end up in a situation where major party   candidates are kicked off the ballot in some states, but not others.  So how about the big question? Did Donald Trump engage in insurrection? Of course, Colorado claims he did. And Donald Trump says he did not. But don`t   expect the justices to go too deep into this question. First, that`s just not what the Supreme Court does. They don`t hold trials and they don`t find   facts.  Second, they don`t need to decide this question. The Supreme Court always likes to rule as narrowly as possible. And the Supreme Court tries to base   its rulings on procedural and constitutional issues like the ones we just talked about. However, this case comes out, we will see history in the   making.  Now, I got to go. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Now, as this election season heats up, there is another complicated issue that could affect political outcomes. AI generated deepfakes, a   deepfake refers to audio or video that has been created using artificial intelligence. And these deepfakes can look and sound realistic. There are   tools that can detect these hoaxes, but we`re still playing catch up, if you will. CNN`s Donie O`Sullivan, investigates one mayoral election that   may have been affected by the misuse of this technology. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DONIE O`SULLIVAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: When Democrat Paul Vallas ran in a contentious race last year for Chicago mayor, he faced an unprecedented   attack, a deepfake creative using artificial intelligence. AI-GENERATED FAKE AUDIO: We need to stop defunding the police and start refunding them. O`SULLIVAN: So you`ve never actually heard the --  PAUL VALLAS, FORMER CHICAGO MAYORAL CANDIDATE: No, no. O`SULLIVAN: Oh, wow. Well I`m going to play it for you. VALLAS: No, no, no, no, no. You don`t need to. It`s only -- only aggravate me. O`SULLIVAN: OK. This deepfake audio view played into this idea that, you know, you weren`t Democrat enough for the Democratic Party. That you`re two   pro-police, which was a line of attack --  VALLAS: Yeah.  O`SULLIVAN: -- against you.  VALLAS: Yeah. Well, clearly, you know, look, Chicago is a very, very, very, very blue city. And they were trying to portray me as some -- some far hard   right Conservative Republican, being able to throw mud against the wall like that, put you in a position where you have to deny it or damage has   still been done. And there is some damage that`s not reparable.  It`s clear based on the result tonight that the city is deeply divided. O`SULLIVAN: Vallas lost the election by four points. He says he doesn`t know the full effect the deepfake had on the race. The account that shared the deepfake of you was called Chicago Lake Front News.  VALLAS: Yeah.  O`SULLIVAN: Doesn`t exist.  VALLAS: Yeah, it doesn`t exist. Yeah.  O`SULLIVAN: So it was very clearly set up for the purpose to character assassinate you.  VALLAS: Yeah.  O`SULLIVAN: And this was a close race? VALLAS: And this was a really close race. O`SULLIVAN: Digital forensics expert Hany Farid says AI deepfakes are no longer a hypothetical problem, but an actual threat to elections. AI-GENERATED FAKE AUDIO: 17 or 18 civilians in their career and nobody would bat an eye. HANY FARID, DIGITAL FORENSICS EXPERT, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY: So I make a lot of fakes because I`m in the business of detecting them. And   I can do that whole thing in about five minutes.  O`SULLIVAN: Yeah.  FARID: Almost anybody. Here`s why I think audio alone is in some ways a bigger threat. The most compelling deepfakes that I`ve seen are these so-  called hot mic deepfakes. You don`t see their mouth moving. You don`t see anything, but you hear the voice and it`s visceral. And it sounds like   you`re your eavesdropping on them. And I think that -- that those are really powerful. O`SULLIVAN: A CNN analysis shows that U.S. isn`t prepared to respond effectively. We ask election officials in all 50 states, how they`re   preparing for deepfakes, 33 responded, but less than half of those cited specific actions to handle AI threats. FARID: I don`t think we`re ready. I mean, we are still struggling with the last 10 years of the nonsense that has been social media as in the lives   and the conspiracies that are propagated. It`s -- it`s hard to look at that and say, well, the injection of jet fuel into that is not going to have any   impact. Of course it will. O`SULLIVAN: They talk to a lot of people on the left, liberals. And there is at times a bit of smugness there, which says, well, it`s the Trump   supporters who fall for online misinformation.  VALLAS: Right, right.  O`SULLIVAN: Not us.  VALLAS: Yeah.  O`SULLIVAN: We`re also susceptible to this, are we?  VALLAS: Yeah. We`re also susceptible to it and we all do it. When I say we all do it, I`m saying within every group, there are people who will do it.   There are people who will cross that line. O`SULLIVAN: A lot of Americans might think, oh, the risk of AI and all this sort of stuff. It`s in the future. It`s being overblown. VALLAS: Yeah. I mean the future is now, the future is here. I won`t be the first and I won`t be the last, you know. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia.  What year was the oldest surviving photograph taken? 1861, 1839, 1826 or 1818? If you said 1826, put your hands up. According to how stuff works, it took Joseph Nicephore Niepce eight hours to produce the photo using his   primitive camera.  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10. Can you imagine how life will change a thousand years from now? While a philosopher from the University of   Arizona created a camera to record the past for future generations and to prompt all of us to think about how we can influence the future a thousand   years away. Here`s Jeremy Roth with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEREMY ROTH, CNN REPORTER: Take a look at a camera that will be taking one single picture for 1000 years. It`s called the millennium camera and is an   ambitious project from an experimental philosopher at the University of Arizona. The special camera set up overlooking a Tucson area desert was   designed to take one extremely long exposure of the vista over the next 10 centuries.  The idea is not only to one day show how the environment changed over time, but also to inspire discussions now about actions that can be taken to   shape its future. But as far as the finished photo is concerned, it won`t be ready to view until the year 3023. So check back then, I guess. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: All right. Question for all of you. Why did the camera stop dreaming about a career in photography? It couldn`t remain focused.  All right, superstars. That`s it for today`s show. But it`s time for some shout outs St. Croix Central High School located on this island of St.   Croix in the U.S. Virgin Islands, rise up. We see you. Next up, Coronado High School in Henderson, Nevada. Cougars, keep on being awesome. For all you sports fans out there, I`m interviewing The GOAT, Tom   Brady tomorrow. So send your questions to the comment section of my most recent post @coywire on social. And I`m going to pick one winner from a   viewer to ask Tom, and I`m going to say your name and school when I ask him.  All right, we`ll see you tomorrow, lovely people. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-02-09
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello lovely people. Welcome to CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news. I`m Coy Wire. Happy Friday, Friyay. Let`s take some   great energy into this weekend. And we`re going to start today`s show by focusing on you, specifically your health. Our Dr. Sanjay Gupta met with a physician to learn more about body   composition and what our body weight might tell us about our health and what actually is a healthy weight. Watch. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DR. FATIMA CODY STANFORD, OBESITY MEDICINE, MASSACHUSETTS GENERAL HOSPITAL:  Our weight is one factor that plays a role in our health. By itself, it   doesn`t give us the full story of who we are. DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT:  Obesity in and of itself, I know your perspective is in and of itself can be a disease. STANFORD:  Right. But what you`re really looking at is the -- the ramifications of that obesity, high cholesterol, triglycerides, your   insulin`s not working as well.  STANFORD:  And I can`t just judge the book by its cover and assume that someone that is larger is unhealthy and someone that is lean is healthy,   right?  GUPTA:  Right. STANFORD:  That`s -- that`s the assumption that people make. I call that practicing street corner medicine. We`re going to -- we`re going to coin   that today on the show, Sanjay. GUPTA:  Street corner medicine, I like it. STANFORD:  I want to look beneath the -- the surface of the individual and see what`s going on, because someone who`s lean may be very unhealthy and   someone who`s heavier may be healthier. You may have someone who carries excess weight. They may be an ultra-marathon or they may be capable of   running in a hundred-mile race and be very, very healthy, not have joint pains, may be able to carry that weight and do things that someone that`s   much leaner may not be able to and have the metabolic health to fit that profile.  And so I think it`s important for us to look at the weight, plus the health and put those two pieces of the puzzle together. My goal is to get you to   the happiest, healthiest weight for you. And so this comes to this idea of not comparing yourself to the person next to you, the person above you,   whatever that is, what is the weight that you best live at? (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, for any of you out there who maybe don`t go to a gym or don`t like going to a gym, check out this workout, you can do at home using   a paper plate. Dana Santas has four exercises, each of which you can do about 8 to 10 reps and three to five rounds. Here it is. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DANA SANTAS, BREATHING, MOBILITY, AND MIND-BODY COACH:  I want to show you a surprisingly challenging workout using only a paper plate. You`ll put   your paper plate on the floor and put your foot on top and then hands on your hips. Step back, tap your knee, bring it back up. Stable eye through   your left leg. Your left leg is really doing all of the work here.  The next exercise is a lateral lunge. So you`ll put one foot on the paper plate, hands on your hips again. And then your sliding back. Try to sit   back into the hip of your standing leg and keep your chest up. You`ll notice I`m leaning a little bit to counterbalance, but I`m trying to keep   my chest up. This leg is really, what`s keeping me stable in this position and from sliding completely out that way. And make sure you do both sides on all of the exercises. And remember, it`s so important to focus on the standing leg that`s stabilizing the exercise.   The last two exercises involve a plank position and making circles with your arms and your legs.  So we`ll start with our arms. So from your plank position, make sure you get stable. Take your feet out a little bit wider than you ordinarily would   for a little extra stability, and then place your hand inside the paper plate and just start to make circles.  Now make sure your low back is not arching like this because that`s not going to do you any good. You need a nice strong core. If you find that   it`s too difficult, then put your knees down. Otherwise, stay here and do your eight circles, and you can switch it up. Ideally do four one   direction, do four, see other direction. And then of course switch to the other side.  And finally, we`ll move the plate to our foot. And from that strong stable plank position, we just start making circles in your own range of motion.   If your range of motion is smaller, you can go smaller. Make sure you go for one direction, four the other direction. And then switch, and then   other direction. (END VIDEO CLIP) Let`s turn now to nutrition. Have you ever heard of ultra-processed foods? Well, there`re basically any food that contains ingredients that are never,   or are rarely used in kitchens. And while these additives add flavor and might keep foods lasting longer, they could be leading to a higher risk of   cancer, heart disease, obesity, even death. And sometimes it`s hard to tell which foods actually contain these ingredients. We talk to dietitian   nutritionist, Lorraine Kearney, who shows us how reading food labels can help us better understand how processed some foods really are. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) LORRAINE KEARNEY, CERTIFIED DIETITIAN NUTRITIONIST:  Most people think ultra-processed foods are found in the chip bottle or the cookie aisle, but   it can also be found in this cereal, in the oatmeal and yogurts. And I`m going to help you today to navigate through them and what to look out for. When we get our bread at the bakery, it is most minimally processed bread. When I`m looking at the ingredient list in these two breads, I prefer this   option. It has multi grain flour, water, salt in east. Compared to this other shelf stable bread that does have more additives and preservatives as   well as dough conditioners to preserve shelf like. This one does have more fiber compared to the other bread. With most Americans only consuming about 5% of the fiber they need in a day. They are   missing out in a lot of nutrients.  So when we are looking at a minimally processed cereal, it will have that shorter ingredient list and lower amounts of sugar compared to the flavor   enhancers or the added fats and oil to increase that mouth feel.  With our ultra-process, it does have a higher amount of calories, but then with the fiber, when we look minimally processed has a total of 12 compared   to 10. With some yogurts, there`s actually enough sugar to be enough for a dessert rather than a breakfast. So when we are choosing a yogurt, we want   to make sure that we are looking at the ingredient list.  This product has 18 grams of added sugar. And how we can tell if the product is high, lower, medium sugar is dividing the number of grams by   four to turn it into teaspoons. Compared to zero grams of added sugar and 15 grams of protein. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. In what country were fireworks invented? China, United States, Russia, or India.  If you said China, you are correct. That`s where fireworks first appeared following the invention of gun powder, and now China produces more   fireworks than any country in the world. For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, we want to take you to a beautiful lantern festival in the city of Shanghai in China. It opened a   couple weeks ago ahead of the Lunar New Year celebration. Millions of people around the world are now getting ready for this holiday that falls   on February 10th, this year and marks the first new moon of the lunar calendar. According to the Chinese Zodiac calendar, this is the year of the   dragon.  OK. I`m not going to be dragging on this show any longer. Time to roll. Thanks for all the questions about Tom Brady that you want me to ask. We`re   going to see the winner on Monday show.  I want to give a shout out now. Let`s go to Antigo, Wisconsin with a Red Robin of Antigo Middle School, rise up.  And this shout out goes to the   Shipbuilders at Morse High School in Bath, Maine. Yeah, baby. Let`s ride this energy away right on into the weekend. Remember, you are more powerful   than, you know. I`m Coy Wire. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END 

Date: 2024-02-12
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up, Sunshine, rise up. Welcome to CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news. I`m Coy Wire. Still here in Las Vegas for what   was an awesome Super Bowl unless your team lost. Of course then, sorry.  We started today with the biggest news from last night off the field that is, and I`m talking about the commercial break, Super Bowl advertising. Our   Jenn Sullivan dives into the business side of the big game and why with more than 100 million people tuning in, the Super Bowl is the most watched   TV program of the year and the biggest opportunity of the year for advertisers. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JENN SULLIVAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Some people watch the Super Bowl for the game, others for the commercials, but unlike the players, these companies   have seconds to grab our attention. DEREK RUCKER, MARKETING PROFESSOR, KELLOGG SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT: It`s a massively competitive playing field when it comes to advertising, because   everyone showcasing their best thoughts. SULLIVAN: Kellogg marketing professor Derek Rucker says companies are shelling out 7 million this year for a 32nd ad during the Super Bowl. RUCKER: It`s a costly investment. SULLIVAN: So how do you make sure you get a return on that investment? Some commercials make us laugh.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Help. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You can`t touch this. SULLIVAN: While, others pull at our heartstrings.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Hey Google, show me photos of me and Loretta. RUCKER: If you introduce a problem for which your brand is the solution, that can be very powerful. SULLIVAN: Rucker says, some companies will use jingles. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Like a good neighbor, State Farm is there. SULLIVAN: Or celebrities. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Nationwide there to protect, maybe leave the songs to me. SULLIVAN: To grab our attention. But it`s important that consumers still remember the product and not just the ad itself. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Next up, perhaps the most talked about person at last night`s game in here at Super Bowl all week, Taylor Swift. And I know some folks may be a   bit tired of hearing about Tay Tay, but not the Swifties. She`s such a phenomenon that one class at Harvard University is just beginning to   examine the megastars music and lyrics. Check it out. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) STEPHANIE BURT, ENGLISH PROFESSOR, HARVARD UNIVERSITY: If I weren`t a Swifty, I would not want to teach this class. This is the chorus where we`re going to take her at her word. And we`re going to --  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Professor Stephanie Burt, a diehard Taylor Swift fan herself is teaching in English Literature class about the megastar at   Harvard University. BURT: We`re looking at -- at another Swift`s work and career and the works of art around that. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Nearly 300 students signed up for her class.  If you could teach one subject in school, what would it be?  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: English. MARY CATHERINE HANAFEE LAPLANTE, HARVARD UNIVERSITY STUDENT: I think the kind of atmosphere in the class is very joyous. I`m taking it with a couple   of friends. And the first day when we walked in, we could not stop laughing out of the sheer amazement that we were able to take this class at Harvard   for credit, definitely posting that TikTok was very interesting. And there were a lot of people saying that this class should not be taught at   Harvard. That, um, our education system is failing us. BURT: Taylor Swift is a serious songwriter. And why are you doing this? And it, you know, you`ve brought down the institution. That`s just stilly. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Professor Burt says that Taylor`s songwriting and lyrics are actually full of references to many English, literary works and   worth a closer look.  BURT: I want more people to read Alexander Pope than the way you get people into creators and works of art that are not famous. That aren`t well known   as by conducting them to things people already like, and you have to do it sincerely and wholeheartedly or it won`t work. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Next up, I spoke with a legendary quarterback who knows all about winning the Super Bowl seven times Tom Brady. And during my interview with   him, I asked him one of your questions and thanks to everyone who submitted at @coywire on social. Here`s the GOAT for you.  So for our CNN 10 student audience. TOM BRADY, NFL RETIRED QUARTERBACK: Yeah.  WIRE: I have a student question for you.  BRADY: Cool.  WIRE: Julian Ramirez is at a Rockwall-Heath High School in Texas. What motivated you to wake up every single day and work? BRADY: Well, a lot of things, myself, I wanted to make sure I never looked in the mirror at the end of the day and realized I could have done better.   And I always try to do my best and my teammates because I never want to let them down. So I think when you`re a part of a team, you`ve got to   understand that you`re accountable to -- to them as well. And you know, your teammates are getting up to work hard. So you got to do it too. And   you got to play your part. And I think when that comes together, you create the best teams and the best relationships and you have the most fun. WIRE: And when you get everyone on that same page, that`s when that magic happens.  BRADY: Yeah. That`s what it`s all about.  WIRE: Yeah.  BRADY: Because you got to -- it`s one goal. It`s one mission. And when you bring people together, you try to win, but it`s not as easy as it sounds.   You got to have a lot of people working towards the same goal. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia. Who was the U.S. president before Abraham Lincoln took office in 1861? James Monroe, James Polk, James Buchanan, or James Garfield.  If you said James Buchanan put your hands up. Buchanan served as the 15th U.S. President from 1857 to 1861. He did not seek reelection because he had   promised to serve only one term in office.  Today is February 12th and it`s Abraham Lincoln`s birthday, did you know, born in 1809. Lincoln is one of the most iconic presidents in our nation`s   history. And some parts of his presidential legacy have become almost mythological.  Our Tom Foreman separates facts from fiction with some of these myths. And while you watch, keep in mind, these are short bullet points. We hope this   serves as a guide. So you can talk to your teachers, dig into the research and discover the real life of this inspiring president. (BEGIN VIDEO TAPE) TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Every president sells an image -- patriot, dealmaker, groundbreaker. Abraham Lincoln was the rail- splitter. Sold to   voters as a hardworking laborer, a man of the people. But that is also the first big myth about honest Abe, pushed by his political party. MICHELLE MITCHELL, NEW YORK UNIVERSITY DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY: They wanted stories that showed Lincoln being this humble rail-splitter, being a   country bumpkin. SIDNEY BLUMENTHAL, AUTHOR, "A SELF-MADE MAN": The plain truth was Lincoln was a lawyer and a politician, and had been a rail-splitter a long time   before. FOREMAN: The second myth, Lincoln rose to power by supporting the abolition of slavery. Although Lincoln thought slavery might die eventually, he   focused on simply not letting it spread to new western states, fearful of the political and economic consequences if it did. CHENJERAI KUMANYIKA, CO-CREATOR, "UNCIVIL" PODCAST: I mean, the idea of abolition is demonized because abolishing slavery was a radical idea. He   basically has to defend himself against being an abolitionist. FOREMAN: The third myth, Lincoln was a champion for black American rights. To the contrary, he explicitly argued that whites were the superior race,   and he adjusted as needed. VAN JONES, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: We have a tendency to say he is this moral paragon or he`s just a political animal. No, he`s a hybrid. If you   want to understand him, you have got to understand both sides. FOREMAN: Myth four, Lincoln was destined for greatness. One might think so, but Lincoln`s career was marked by many business, professional, and   political failures. He won the presidency only because the Democratic opposition split between three different candidates. And myth five, Lincoln singlehandedly drove his destiny with ambition, intelligence, humor. That`s partially true, but by all accounts, his wife   Mary Todd pushed him hard to become the president so loved and remembered, facts, myths, legends, and all. (END VIDEO TAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, we`re continuing to highlight trail blazing black Americans who are true trailblazers and difference   makers. And in our second week of black history month profiles, we shine a light on Sandra Douglass Morgan, President of the Las Vegas Raiders. She is   the first black woman in history to be named president of an NFL team.  She grew up here in east Las Vegas with a black father, a Korean mother. And when she was a kid, she wanted to grow up to be the next Connie Chung,   who was the first Asian woman to anchor a national network evening news show.  Sandra Douglass Morgan would go on to become the first black city attorney in Nevada. During her time as chief legal officer for North Las Vegas. She   told me, it was helpful to be an outsider`s outsider. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) SANDRA DOUGLASS MORGAN, PRESIDENT, LAS VEGAS RAIDERS: So I wasn`t able to really focus on any hindrances or kind of, you know, preconceived issues   that might be there. I just knew I was going to roll up my sleeves and try to get the work done. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Now, about 100 years before Ms. Douglass Morgan made history, Fritz Pollard became the first black coach in the NFL, but he busted down   barriers well before that in 1916. He attended Brown University where he majored in chemistry and became the first black football player ever at the   school, leading the team to the rose bowl.  After serving in World War I, he was one of only two black players in the American Professional Football Association. The league that would later   become the NFL. He faced racial slurs and threats from fans, even teammates, but Pollard once said, I would just look at them and grin. And   in the next minute run for an 80-yard touchdown. Pollard was inducted into the football hall of fame in 2005.  Thank you all for being my Hall of Famers. I know some of you been waiting a long time for a shout out today. We`re going to go to L.A. South Park   Scorpions in Los Angeles, California, rise up. Thank you for your persistence. And shout out to Leesville Road High School in Raleigh, North Carolina, Home of the Pride, what a Blake and Devlin (ph). Shine bright superstars.   To see you tomorrow. I`m Coy Wire. And we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-02-13
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, sunshine. It`s a terrific Tuesday. Let`s make it a teacher time Tuesday. So at some point today, go up to someone,   guiding you, give them a dap, a handshake or rug, and tell them, thank you. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, where I tell you the what, letting you decide   what to think.  We`re going to start our show with celebrating the 215th birthday of the man who changed the way we understand the diversity of life on earth,   Charles Darwin. Darwin is best known for his theory of evolution. The idea that all of life adapts to its environment over generations. He first came   to this theory on the Galapagos Islands off the coast of Ecuador, where he found animals seen nowhere else. But Darwin had other theories as well. And   not just on the Galapagos. A group of researchers are sailing around the world, retracing a famous journey that the renowned scientists made in the   19th Century. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) STEWART MCPHERSON, PROJECT LEADER, DARWIN200: Charles Darwin changed the world with his ideas, not just evolution, thousands of other theories and   ideas. It still reverberates to this day, the impact of his observations and discoveries in a small way, we try and take inspiration from that, that   all of us, every single one of us can help change the world. If we use our brains and use our minds and decide to make a positive action for the   future.  We`ve embarked on this incredible two-year journey around the world, following it in Charles Darwin`s footsteps. So all of the major ports that   you visitors, there`s 32 of them along the itinerary. We`re working with incredible conservation partners in those different ports to place these   extraordinary Darwin leaders, these young conservationists to study the amazing work being done. So it`s a bit like an exchange. Darwin leaders   come for example, from different countries around the world to Brazil, to learn from incredible Brazilian conservationists. Then likewise   inspirational young Brazilians go to other countries to learn there and then bring new knowledge back.  They have to really use their brains and think use every bit of initiative that they can and work out new solutions, new strategies, new ideas, what   more could be done to make a better brighter future for their animal plant.  Charles Darwin was actually one of the last naturalists to dock these beautiful howler monkeys here in Rio Janeiro. They became locally extinct   relatively soon after his visit. Refauna has already put groups back into the world. SARAH DARWIN, BOTANIST & DESCENDANT OF CHARLES DARWIN: Charles Darwin, well, he definitely, we know that he observes the howler monkeys in Rio and   when they do these restoration projects where they reintroduce species, the scientists actually have to prove that the species did exist in that place.   So with Darwin`s account of the howler monkeys, that actually provided the evidence for the scientists to say, right, we`ve got a justifiable reason   to reintroduce this species into this part of forest, because it was originally part of the forest. And here`s our evidence.  We`ve got all these young people who are imagining a positive future for our planets. And I feel energized and enthusiastic while I`m with them   because they`ve got just a really good attitude. JOSEPH ROY, DARWIN LEADER, DARWIN200: I`m generally curious about everything. That`s a good and bad thing. But I try to speak with everyone,   about what they`re doing. So from the process of how they chose this population to how they bred them and how they are acclimatizing them in   here, and then how they`re going to release them. And how they`re going to monitor them after the release. MCPHERSON: If you empower extraordinary drivers of change, these leaders, they`ll have a ripple effect for the next 50 years or more over the course   of their careers. Because, remember they`re late teenagers or early 20s. So they`ll be working for the next half century.  Many of these projects are not rocket science. Like they`re relatively simple. If we care enough and act now, we can make that change many other   times with different animals and plants. The natural world has a really bright and positive future. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: All right, from South America to Africa, Sierra Leone, to be exact where forests are vanishing rapidly. And one sanctuary is working hard to   protect the trees and orphan chimpanzees. Our David McKenzie takes us to Chimp School in the forest outside of Freetown. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It`s playtime in the forest, but these orphaned primates aren`t monkeying   around. This is Skippy nibbling on my arm. You know what`s happening here is they are in chimp school. Basically learning how to be chimps. (Voice-over): Skippy is much braver than the two boys. They try their best. But like their human cousins, they sometimes just need a cuddle. Their   carer wears a mask so the chimps don`t catch a human cold. BALA AMARASEKARAN, FOUNDER, TACUGAMA CHIMPANZEE SANCTUARY: Once you get in here, you have several groups. MCKENZIE: We`re in Sierra Leone with Bala Amarasekaran, the founder of Tacugama Chimp Sanctuary. He rescued his first chimp more than 30 years   ago. AMARASEKARAN: I think he started to showing us the way in terms of it`s not about just the chimp, it`s about the species. So I started looking, rescue   another chimp, another chimp. Mac, you`re good boy. Mac, what`s up? MCKENZIE: Now Tacugama has more than 100 rescued chimps and they manage wild chimp habitats across the country. With just 5,500 Western chimpanzees   left in Sierra Leone, each one is precious.  If you run the edge of Freetown, humans are the biggest threat to chimps. But perhaps not how you may think. In the last few years, have you lost a lot of forest? AMARASEKARAN: A lot it. If you came here like two years ago not a single building or any of these makeshift shelters you`re seeing. Nothing was   there. Yes. Very sad. That is all going right before our eyes. I`ve been fighting this thing for 30 years, not 30 days. MCKENZIE (voice-over): And time is running out. Rampant, often illegal development is destroying the forests. Sierra Leone has lost 55% of its   tree cover since 2000. That`s about 7,500 square miles, or the size of New Jersey. That`s bad for chimps and it`s terrible for us. Africa`s forests   are critical to fighting climate change. AMARASEKARAN: There is no more about preserving forest or wild life. It`s about preserving humans. We are trying to leave a better place for our   children. MCKENZIE: At Tacugama, they`re doing everything they can to document and protect the extraordinary diversity of these forests. And the wild chimps   that roam here. They believe if they can save their home, it might just help save ours. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz, hot shot. How tall is the Eiffel Tower?  650 feet, 789, 984, or 1083 feet.  All right, trick question, the tower stands 984 feet tall, but a TV antenna added in 1957, pushes it to 1083 feet. But you know what, I`m feeling   generous today. So if you said either number, put your hands up. While the Eiffel Tower`s height might have changed over the years, its significance around the world has always been clear. And now with a 2024   Olympics in Paris this year, athletes who medal will get an extra special reward with their gold, silver or bronze. Our Jeremy Roth explains. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEREMY ROTH, CNN DIGITAL VIDEO PRODUCER: Ahead of the upcoming summer Olympics in Paris. The famous French city has put their stamp on the games   literally by weaving its most iconic landmark right into the competition`s medals. Each medal features a real piece of the Eiffel Tower`s original   iron structure.  Following renovation work during the 20th Century, certain metallic elements were removed from the famous French landmark and have been   carefully preserved ever since. They have now been repurposed to create the medal`s hexagonal centerpiece, a reference to the country`s geometric   shape. The fusing of the medals with the metals will allow the heart of Paris to reside near the hearts of the summer games fiercest competitors. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: I want to give a shout out today. How about those Tigers in Alamogordo, New Mexico, Alamogordo High School, rise up. And this shoutout   goes to Highland Middle School in Medina, Ohio, go on float like a butterfly, sting like a hornet.  I`m going to be missing you tomorrow. I`ll finally be traveling back to home base, but you can still make this show in #YourWordWednesday. Follow   me @coywire on Instagram, Snapchat, TikTok, put your unique vocabulary word in the comment section on my most recent post with your school and your   teacher`s name as well. And we`ll choose a fun winner to work into tomorrow`s show.  See you soon lovely people. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-02-14
JON SARLIN, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, superstars. Welcome to CNN 10. I am your host on this glorious Wednesday. My name is Jon Sarlin. You might notice, I   am filling in for Coy Wire.  I may not be your regular host, but it is still a #YourWordWednesday. So keep an ear out for your vocab word in today`s show.  Let`s get started with something exciting. Math, well, more specifically inflation. The Bureau of Labor Statistics, the government agency that   collects data about the health of the U.S. economy released the first measure of inflation in 2024, known as the Consumer Price Index. Inflation   is an increase in the price of goods and services. And during the pandemic prices surged reaching a high of 9.1% in June of 2022.  The Federal Reserve, the Central Bank of the U.S. that sets policy for banks and money has been taking steps to make that rate go down. And it has   on Tuesday. The Consumer Price Index showed prices rose by 3.1% for the past 12 months, that ended in January. That increase was just 0.3% from   December.  Overall, that`s a good thing. But it`s not as good as analysts were hoping for. Experts really wanted inflation to be under 3%. And the reason the   numbers weren`t as good as some had hoped is because of a few parts of the economy. In particular, food and housing. They continue to experience   higher than normal inflation.  On the other end of the spectrum, though, energy prices like gas went down significantly. That`s good news for those who need to fill up their gas   station or heat their homes this winter.  So inflation prices go up, but as much as everyone wishes for prices to just decrease back to pre-pandemic levels, it`s actually not good for the   economy if that happens. CNN Business and Politics Correspondent, Vanessa Yurkevich, explains what deflation is and why we want to avoid it. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS & POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: We hear you. We feel you. And we get it. Inflation sucks, and Americans are paying the   price literally. Rents have been falling, but it`s still the biggest share of what we pay every single month. It`s where we feel higher prices the   most.  But the U.S. economy has somehow pulled off a miracle, low unemployment, rising wages, plentiful jobs with falling inflation without a recession.   But many of you still feel like things are too expensive and they still are.  Here`s the thing, as much as it would be great to see prices drop, we`re never going to pay 2019 prices again. Pandemic or not. That would be   something called deflation, when prices fall, sounds great, right? Wrong. Deflation is something we don`t want to see. When there`s deflation, it   means there`s less demand, which could lead to things like layoffs, high unemployment and falling comes. That`s what happened in the Great   Depression. The Federal Reserve is doing everything in its power not to let that happen.  What we do want to see is disinflation or slowing the rate at which prices increase, that pushes down the overall inflation rate and what has been   happening since the summer of 2022, when inflation hit a 40 year high of 9.1% in a single month.  And the reason prices have cooled is because of the Federal Reserve raising interest rates. The Fed`s goal is a 2% yearly inflation rate. That`s what   we`re all used to. We`re not there yet, but we are close. Yet despite progress, it still feels painful. Some of this isn`t about numbers. It`s   psychological. It`s about history and your age.  There have been three previous moments of great inflation since World War II, not including this one. Baby boomers and Gen X have experienced high   inflation in their adult working lives when it topped 12.3 and 14.8% and had mortgage rates at 10% and nearly 19%. But for millennials and Gen Z,   this is our first time and it just feels more painful. (END VIDEOTAPE) SARLIN: Ten second trivia time.  When was the oldest known Valentine sent?  Was it the 14th century, the 15th century, the 16th century or the 17th century.  If you said, the 15th century you`ve won our hearts. According to the British library, the oldest known Valentine was written in 1415 by Charles   to Duke of Orleans to his wife while he was imprisoned in the Tower of London.  Well, today is Valentine`s Day. And when we think of this special holiday, of course, we think of love. We think of romance. But love can also hurt   sometimes, especially when it comes to a breakup. So we spoke to a biological anthropologist who explains to U.S. exactly how our brains react   when we get rejected and what can help to repair a broken heart. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DR. HELEN FISHER, BIOLOGICAL ANTHROPOLOGIST: Romantic love and attachment are basic survival mechanisms that evolved millions of years ago so that we   could find the right partner and send our DNA into tomorrow. It`s a basic human survival mechanism. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Helen Fisher is a Biological Anthropologist who studies romantic love and attachment and how it affects the brain. Not only when   you fall in love, but also when you fall out of it. FISHER: Nobody gets how to love alive. We all suffer when we`ve been rejected. When I and my colleagues put 17 people who had just been rejected   in love. We`ve found about six or seven things that happen in the brain of everybody. A brain region with feelings of romantic love remain active. You   don`t fall out of love with somebody just because they talk to. As a matter of fact, you can even love them more. A brain region link with feelings of   deep attachment become active. You`re still feeling attached to the person.  A brain region link with physical pain becomes active when you`ve been rejected. And then there`s three brain regions like with craving and   addiction, particularly a particular little factory called the nucleus accumbens. And that factory becomes active with any kind of addiction like   gambling addiction, food addiction, and it`s a brain region that becomes active as well. When you have been rejected in love.  I do think that romantic love is an addiction, can be a perfectly wonderful addiction when it`s going well, and a perfectly horrible addiction when   it`s going poorly.  Basically we suffer because from ancient times, this jeopardized your ability to send your DNA on into tomorrow. And that`s your survival. No   wonder we suffer so much. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: But it`s not all pain and suffering. There is one thing Fisher noticed that helps ease the feelings of heartbreak and rejection. FISHER: The longer from that moment of rejection with more and more time, you see less and less activity in brain reach`s linked with attachment.   We`ve been able to prove that time does heal. (END VIDEOTAPE) SARLIN: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, we head to a Senior Living Center in Kentucky where a Valentine`s Day challenge is bringing some love   and euphoria to their elderly residents. Megan Mannering with CNN Affiliate WLEX brings us this real-world example of how you can help others with just   pen and paper. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BARB PACE, RESIDENT AMBASSADOR, PRESTON GREENS SENIOR LIVING: Oh my goodness. That is clever.  MEGAN MANNERING, WLEX REPORTER: Barb Pace will admit she`s a sucker for a handmade Valentine.  Well, I`m told that these came from a class of students from Maryland. PACE: Oh, really? Oh, look at that. MANNERING: There`s just something about getting mail. It reminds her of the letters her husband sent when he served in the army. PACE: We could not wait for the mail to come. WILL NAYLOR, ACTIVITIES DIRECTOR, PRESTON GREENS SENIOR LIVING: Having each person receive something will make a smile and a smile can go a long ways. MANNERING: For various reasons, some seniors are reluctant to leave their rooms, but on Valentine`s day, the love will come to them. NAYLOR: The long story short is the impact that it makes on each person. MANNERING: They hope you`ll consider lending a hand taking pen to paper and the Valentine`s don`t need to say a lot because the time it took to send   them says it all. (END VIDEOTAPE) SARLIN: Thanks to Mr. Cottone`s class at West Deptford Middle School in West Deptford, New Jersey for submitting our #YourWordWednesday winner,   Euphoria. Euphoria, a noun meaning a feeling of intense happiness, just as I`m feeling right now. Well done. I hope you find as much euphoria in vocab   words as I do.  And now for the best part of our show, I am giving a shoutout to the Black Knight of Stoughton High School in Stoughton, Massachusetts. Rise up. And a   shout out to Alder Creek Middle School in Milwaukie, Oregon. Go Panthers.  That`s our show today. Thank you for letting me be your guest host on this Wednesday. Fear not, Coy will see you back here tomorrow. We are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-02-15
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, sunshine. I`m back home in the city of our CNN World Headquarters, Atlanta, Georgia. Rise up. It`s Thursday, February   15th, happy Friday eve.  Let`s get this show started with something that has not happened in our nation in nearly 150 years.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) REP. MIKE JOHNSON, (R) HOUSE SPEAKER: The resolution is adopted. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: That`s House Speaker, Mike Johnson officially announcing the impeachment of Homeland Security Secretary of Alejandro Mayorkas. He`s only   the second cabinet official ever in U.S. history to be impeached. The other was Secretary of War, William Belknap, way back in 1876.  Now, the final count came down to just one vote. And this comes one week after House Republicans previous impeachment effort fell short. At that   time, House Majority Leader, Steve Scalise was absent during the vote due to cancer treatment, but his return this time helped push House Republicans   to approve the measure. Not every GOP member supported this decision, though, including Representative Ken Buck. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) REP. KEN BUCK, (R) COLORADO: You can, try to put lipstick on this pig. It is still a pig. And this is a -- a terrible impeachment. It sets a terrible   precedent.  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Now, those Republicans who were in favor of impeachment accused Mayorkas of committing high crimes and misdemeanors for his handling of the   Southern Border, by failing to enforce border laws during a crisis over immigration. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) REP. MARK GREEN, (R) HOMELAND SECURITY CHAIRMAN: This guy essentially subverted the laws passed by this body, and that can`t stand. A cabinet   secretary doesn`t get to pick and choose which laws they`re going to enforce. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: OK. So what`s next? We do know that it is very unlikely that Mayorkas will be removed by the Democrat controlled Senate. And we`re going to make   sure to give you the latest as House Republicans now work to build their case before the Senate.  Next, we head up to the International Space Station where a surgical robot did something that has never been done before. Our Kristin Fisher got an   exclusive behind the scenes look at how a Nebraska based team performed a simulated operation using this space-based robot. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Sitting on top of this SpaceX rocket when it launched in January was the first   surgical robot bound for outer space. SHANE FARRITOR, CTO, VIRTUAL INCISION: So MIRA is a small surgical robot. FISHER (voice-over): MIRA, made by a company called Virtual Incision, arrived at the International Space Station in February and on Saturday, it   did something that`s never been done before. FARRITOR: Saturday was the first time that a surgical robot in space was controlled by surgeons on Earth to perform simulated surgical activities. FISHER (voice-over): Virtual Incision provided CNN with exclusive video as six surgeons at the company`s headquarters in Lincoln, Nebraska took turns   operating the robot after it was powered up by NASA astronauts roughly 250 miles above. DR. MICHAEL JOBST, SURGEON: The adrenaline was pumping and I could feel my heart pounding. It was -- it was really exhilarating. But at the same time,   once I saw that, you know, robotic device doing the things that I`m used to it doing, settled down. FISHER (voice-over): Dr. Michael Jobst says he`s already performed 15 surgeries with MIRA during clinical trials on human patients here on Earth,   but he`s never had to contend with zero gravity or a time delay of about half a second. JOBST: A split-second during -- you know, a half a second is going to be significant, so this was a big challenge. FARRITOR: You can see a left hand with a grasper and a right hand with a pair of scissors. And we use rubber bands here to simulate surgical tissue. JOBST: So you could think of those rubber bands as perhaps, you know, blood vessels or tendons, or other connective tissue that has elasticity. So   we`re able to, you know, grab hold of the rubber bands and then take the scissors and just basically to cut them.  FARRITOR: All right, I`m going for it.  (OFF MIC) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yeah, yeah. (APPLAUSE) FARRITOR: That was one small rubber band, but a great leap for surgery. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop is hot shot.  Which two colors make up the Chinese flag? Blue and white, red and yellow, black and green, or white and red.  If you said red and yellow, put your hands up. Red is a popular color in China, symbolizing happiness, luck, and prosperity, while yellow expresses   power and represents the earth in traditional Chinese culture.  Last week, we mentioned the start of the Chinese Lunar New Year and the holiday celebrations are still going strong. One of those traditions is   lion dancing, a vibrant art form rooted in Southern China during the Tang dynasty over 1000 years ago. Let`s meet a group of young Chinese Americans who are learning to become the next generation of lion dancers, keeping this tradition alive. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) KARLIN CHAN, SENIOR DIRECTOR, NEW YORK CHINESE FREEMASONS ATHLETIC CLUB: This may be true decades eight ago, but you know, many tourists will come   down here and assume that none of us spoke English. They would always ask you -- I guess it may be out of courtesy -- do you speak English? I`ll just   looking at him and say, I`ll try. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Up, down, up, down, down, up, down, up. BRANDON LEE, PRESIDENT, NEW YORK CHINESE FREEMASONS ATHLETIC CLUB: Coming up here is like -- it`s a bonding with the younger guys and older guys. I   think that`s important for guys that Asian-Americans outside that don`t have anywhere to belong. You kind of come here and then you find own family   up here. CHAN: But lion dancing came to the United States as the Chinese immigrants came to United States back in the 1800s, you know, because you were in a   foreign land, so you had to hang on for something from your culture.  I always thought it was important to -- for Chinese to embrace our own heritage and our culture. And we are Chinese. We`re American. It`s nothing   to be embarrassed about, you know, some of the old traditions, it`s nothing to be embarrassed about. LEE: So you go bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, bum. In our lion dance group, they practice all year round because the lion head weighs between 15 to 20 pounds sometimes. Lion dancing during Chinese New   Year is to bring in good luck, and scare away the bad spirits and -- and bringing wealth and prosperity to the New Years. CHAN: Each successive generation of American-Chinese that are born here, you wander further and further away from their own heritage.  You know, on New Year`s eve, you know, the whole family, extended family gets together for a meal. And a lot of people, you know, younger people at   that time would say, "Oh man, that`s so old fashioned." But, you know, since the pandemic, I think a lot of people came back here and started   embracing their -- their -- their own culture and heritage. LEE: You know, everybody expects Chinese-Americans to be smartest, the best in their class. Everybody`s comparing you to other people`s kids. And it`s   basically, it`s a competition with Chinese-Americans. Lion dancing is a very big part of my identity because it`s kind of to stay in touch with my Chinese culture. And, you know, it gives me reasons to   like speak their language and talk to Chinese people and, you know, stay more involved with my own Chinese heritage. CHAN: When I go out there every year with them, you know, I feel the same way as I did 50 years ago. You know, when I was doing it, the feeling   doesn`t go away. You know, it`s hard to describe, but it`s more like pride. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson. I caught up with DJ as he was hyping up the upcoming WrestleMania in   Philadelphia. And thanks to all of you who submitted questions to my @coywire social accounts. The Rock was delighted to answer some questions   from you, our CNN 10 fam. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Rocco Gordon in South Oldham Middle School. What is your favorite movie to be in? And then what`s your favorite wrestling match of your   career? From Jordan in Geisler Middle in Michigan.  DWAYNE JOHNSON, ACTOR: Favorite movie that I`ve been in? Let`s see, it`s kind of tough. I got a few of them. Number one would be "The Scorpion King"   because it was my very first movie. And I was learning the business, baptism by fire. Just thrown into it. It was my first starring role. I felt   like, man, I just don`t want to suck. And I`d like to have a career. WIRE: You did all right?  JOHNSON: I did all right. And I enjoyed the "Jumanji" movies. I would say the most fun that I had was probably "Jungle Cruise" with Emily Blunt and   Jaume Collet-Serra, our Director. My favorite match was a match that was non-televised, no pay per view. It was in Hawaii. And it was in the same arena that my grandparents had   struggled in because they were wrestling promoters in the 80s. And I used to go to this arena that`s still there, Blaisdell. And we`d draw no money.   It was always paycheck to paycheck. And it was once a month. And I was able to go back, man. And I`ll share this with you.  WIRE: That`s awesome.  JOHNSON: When it was announced, hey, Rock is coming back home, it sold out. Thank you, God. And I was able to enjoy that arena in that way and give   back to my family.  WIRE: Well, played.  JOHNSON: Good to see you, brother.  WIRE: You too, man.  JOHNSON: It`s like looking in the mirror.  WIRE: I know. He`s the Rock, I`m the pebble.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: The Rock rocks. And so do you. Thanks to everyone who subscribed and commented on our CNN 10 YouTube page for your shout out request. This shout   out goes to, Tunkhannock Pennsylvania where the Tigers at Tunkhannock Area School District are looking mighty fine in those stripes. And this shout   out goers to the beautiful people at Butte High School in Butte, Montana. Rise up.  Let`s do this again tomorrow. Shall we? And finish this week strong. I`m coy wire, and this is CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-02-16
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, sunshine. Welcome to CNN 10. Go on and smell the flowers and cool the soup. We made it to Friday, baby. Friyay.   Let`s finish this week strong. I`m Coy Wire.  Let`s start today by taking a look at the possible implications of the special election that took place in New York earlier this week. Democrat   Tom Suozzi defeated Republican Mazi Pilip in New York`s 3rd Congressional District election. This election took place to replace expelled former GOP   Representative George Santos, who`s facing federal charges that include money laundering and lying to investigators.  Suozzi`s win is significant because it helps Democrats tighten the already slim majority, the Republicans have in the House of Representatives, their   control now slips down to just six votes.  And the repercussions may not end there. Our Lauren Fox explains what this might mean for both parties as they try to win over voters in the upcoming   presidential election season. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)  LAUREN FOX, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  A democratic victory in New York, shrinking an already narrow Republican majority in the   House. REP. TOM SUOZZI (D-NY):  Let me just enjoy this for one more minute, OK? FOX:  As the GOP grapples with what it means for their chances in November. REP. MIKE JOHNSON, (R) HOUSE SPEAKER:  The result last night is -- is not something in my view that Democrats should celebrate too much. There was a   weather event that -- that affected turnout. There are a lot of factors there. That is in no way a bellwether of what`s going to happen this fall. FOX:  Many in the party arguing former three-term, Congressman Tom Suozzi won in a district where he had high name ID against a relatively unknown   GOP opponent. REP. NICOLE MALLIOTAKIS, (D) NEW YORK:  I think it was a little bit of the, you know, the devil, you know, versus the devil you don`t know. FOX:  But the special election in the New York suburbs still a key opportunity for both parties to test drive their messages and assign for   Democrats that they may be able to play offense on immigration. One of the most difficult issues facing them this cycle.  REP. BYRON DONALDS, (D) FLORIDA:  If the Democrats are going to try to campaign on wanting to secure the border, we should actually call their   bluff and make them do it right now. FOX:  On the trail, Republican Mazi Pilip hammered Suozzi on the border in a district where a migrant shelter was built just last summer. MAZI PILIP, (D-NY):  We are fighters. FOX:  But Suozzi attacked his opponent for not having solutions. And instead embraced a bipartisan Senate bill aimed at cracking down on asylum   claims and more quickly processing and deporting migrants that come to the U.S. illegally. REP. HAKEEM JEFFRIES, (D) NEW YORK:  Tom Suozzi talked about issues, fixing challenges, solving problems. FOX:  The district, which Biden one by eight points in 2020 has emerged as a key battleground for Republicans in recent years with a powerful party   apparatus that helped elect George Santos and a new class of GOP congressmen in 2022. Both parties view those suburban districts as key to   winning the majority in 2024. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Now this year, there are several major elections happening around the world with people in some of the world`s largest democracies, looking   to vote on their next leaders. One of them Indonesia, it`s the third largest democracy in the world with more than 270 million people.  It appears that 72-year-old Prabowo Subianto won the Southeast Asian country`s presidential elections with unofficial results, showing him   winning nearly 60% of the vote. Subianto who`s eight former military general has a controversial pass. At one point, he was banned from entering   the United States.  Our international correspondent, Anna Coren provides more insight on who this new leader is and what it may mean for Indonesia and beyond? (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  This is a job that Prabowo Subianto has wanted for a very long time. He sagged a takeover in 1998 after the fall of   the Suharto dictatorship but failed. He ran for president in 2014 and 2019, but lost both times to Joko Widodo and then falsely claimed the election   had been stolen. The 72-year-old will be Indonesia`s next president.  The quick count, a reliable pollster shows he won almost 60% of the vote, which means there will be no runoff. And as the votes were being counted,   he addressed the media while doing laps in his indoor swing.  Well, official results from the Electoral Commission won`t be revealed until next month. When he greeted supporters last night at a Jakarta sports   stadium may as well have been a victory celebration. He received a rock star welcome where he said, this was a victory for all Indonesians. Take a   listen. PRABOWO SUBIANTO, INDONESIA`S PRESUMED NEW PRESIDENT (through translator):  This victory must be the victory of the people of Indonesia. Prabowo,   Gibran and all of the Indonesia forward coalition will embrace all elements and powers and become the president, vice president and government present   for all the people of Indonesia. COREN:  But claims of vote rigging and massive fraud have been made from the other presidential candidates who`ve vowed to investigate. And there   have been a number of small protests staged in Jakarta today.  Prabowo has an alarming history, a former general under the Suharto dictatorship. He`s been accused of human rights abuses, kidnapping, pro-  democracy activists in the 1990s and ordering the massacre of independence fighters in East Timor in the 1980s, accusations he denies. At one point, he was banned from entering the United States and Australia. But Prabowo has had a dramatic image makeover. Thanks in part to a slick   social media campaign, perhaps most importantly has been the endorsement by President Jokowi. He`s still wildly popular and credited for the country`s   solid economic growth, but he`s reached his two-term limit and cannot run again. But his elder son, 36-year-old Gibran Rakabuming Raka is Prabowo`s   running.  Now, it`s important to note that half of Indonesia`s voters are under the age of 40. Many weren`t born or too young to remember Prabowo`s alleged   human rights abuses. And of course the narrative has been rewritten. Prabowo is now a statesman, cuddly grandfather. He loves to dance on stage   and who`s campaigned as a continuity candidate.  But critics are very concerned about what this means for the world`s third largest democracy. And if Prabowo, who has previously said that Indonesia   needs an authoritarian leader under his reign, the country will slide back to its authoritarian past. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Pop quiz hotshot. A typical full-size standard piano has how many keys on it?  108, 88, 72 or 61. If you said 88, great, great, great. A standard piano has 88 keys, 36 are black representing sharps and flats. The 52 white keys are the natural   tones. Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a pianist putting on a praise, worthy performance, playing in a perpendicular position to a plethora of people   below. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  More than 30 feet above the ground, Swiss Pianist Alain Roche plays a piano hanging vertically in the air, suspended from a crane.   The artist says the piece entitled, winter solstice for the audience in Munich, Germany to listen to nature as part of his piano vertical art   project.  He plans to change the musical composition every day based on natural sounds around him, Roche says he`ll perform in the peace for 182 days from   winter solstice until summer solstice. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Very cool. All right. We are off on Monday in observance of the federal holiday Presidents` Day, and then I`ll be missing you the rest of   the week due to winter school break here in Georgia, but we`ll have some guests filling in. It`ll be awesome. And you will see me for a very cool 10   out of 10, where I ask celebrities for their tips for success for you.  Before we go, shout out time. Let`s go up to Ansonia, Connecticut to give a salute to the Chargers at Ansonia Middle School. What up Mr. Lynch?  And this shout out goes to Ms. Marsh`s class at St. Martin High School in Ocean Springs, M-I-S-S-I-S-S-I-P-P-I, rise up lovely people. From me and my   CNN team, have an awesome holiday weekend.  Make someone smile. Remember you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2024-02-20
VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Good morning, early birds. I`m Vanessa Yurkevich subbing in for Coy Wire today. I`m so happy to start this week   with you after a long holiday weekend. So let`s get those final yawns out and get ready to let some knowledge in. Our lead story today takes us to Russia. Alexei Navalny, who was a fierce critic of Russian President Vladimir Putin had been in prison since 2021.   He died on Friday. The Russian Prison Service says he didn`t feel well while he was on a walk at his prison and then fell unconscious. His cause   of death is still unclear, but the Kremlin says an investigation is underway.  Navalny`s team accused Russian authorities of lying and are refusing to return his body to his family for at least a few more weeks. Navalny`s   widow Yuliya claims President Putin is responsible for his death and she says she will continue her husband`s legacy and fight for justice in   Russia.  There`s been an outpouring of grief across the world, but in Russia, the act of mourning is more difficult. State media largely is ignoring the   situation. And authorities are telling people to avoid unsanctioned gatherings with some makeshift memorials being taken down. Human rights groups claim police have detained hundreds in the country for attending rallies and vigils, and this marks the largest wave of arrests at   political events in the country in two years. Now, to give you more of a sense of who Navalny was and his impact on Russia, let`s turn to our Matthew Chance. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Lawyer, politician, and anti-corruption activist Alexei Navalny led street protests against the   Kremlin for years, but never managed to challenge Putin in the ballot box, famously branded Putin`s United Russia party as the party of crooks and   thieves.  Navalny rose to prominence in 2008, when he began blogging about the alleged corruption within Russian state-run companies. In 2011, he emerged   as one of the leaders of the massive protests that broke out after allegations of massive fraud in parliamentary elections.  Navalny was arrested numerous times and was convicted on embezzlement charges. His first embezzlement conviction came in 2013, as the anti-  corruption activist was preparing to run for mayor of Moscow. Navalny was found guilty of misappropriating about half a million dollars` worth of   lumber from a state-owned company. The activist denied the accusations saying that the charges were politically motivated. The day after the conviction however, the state   prosecutor stunned observers by requesting that Navalny be freed on bail so he could continue campaigning for mayor of Moscow. But Navalny lost to former presidential aide and interim Moscow mayor Sergey Sobyanin. In 2017 during the retrial of the same case, Navalny was   found guilty and received a five-year suspended prison sentence. This time the conviction prevented him from running against Putin in the 2018   presidential elections. ALEXEI NAVALNY (through translation): It is not about Navalny. It is about the fact that a candidate is needed who will finally come to the election   and speak openly about everything that happens in our country now, who will describe our reality honestly, absence of prospective, poverty. I did that   and that`s why you don`t want to let me take part in the election. CHANCE: Russian state media has often silenced the anti-corruption activist but that didn`t stop Navalny who took his anti-Putin message to You Tube   where he frequently broadcast to hundreds of thousands of viewers.  The Kremlin has often condemned Navalny as a dangerous threat to the country`s stability and has rejected his allegations of widespread, high-  level corruption. But outside Russia, many see Navalny as an alternative to hardline Putin. NAVALNY (through translation): The choice is very simple, you`re either scared or you go on. I chose to go on a long time ago and I won`t give up   on my country. (END VIDEO CLIP) YURKEVICH: It is 10 second trivia time. Which American filmmaker created the infamous "War of the World`s" radio play that sparked panic in 1938?  Alfred Hitchcock, Clint Eastwood, Billy Wilder, or Orson Welles.  You said Orson Welles. Well, you`re right. The radio broadcast fooled an audience of millions by mimicking the style of a news report. Some   listeners were convinced that Martians had actually attacked New Jersey.  OK, this next story will blow your mind. And maybe even your eyes. Isn`t this video of a Victoria crowned blue pigeon, just gorgeous? Well, guess   what? It`s not even real and that`s not actually a bird and no one actually even filmed this video. It was all generated using artificial intelligence. AI leader, OpenAI, the company behind the viral ChatGPT has introduced this new model called Sora. The company says Sora can create realistic videos of   up to 60 seconds long, just from quick text prompts. Like this example of a mesmerizing scenic shot in Big Sur, California. OpenAI has not released   this to the public just yet because the company says it intends to work on the safety issues behind these models.  Sora, however, is making some tech experts concerned. Our Michael Holmes spoke with Kristian Hammond, the Director of the Center for Advancing   Safety of Machine Intelligence at Northwestern University about what this breathtaking tool could actually mean. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIAN HAMMOND, DIRECTOR, THE CENTER FOR ADVANCING SAFETY OF MACHINE INTELLIGENCE: We have to get used to the idea that all of these things we   thought were part of establishing truth really no longer will. MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN NACHOR: Yes. HAMMOND: And we have to have an eye towards that. HOLMES: Yeah. OpenAI, they`ve weighed into this and they said, and I`ll quote them too. They say, we are working with red teamers -- domain experts   in areas like misinformation, hateful content and bias -- who will be adversarially testing the model. Are you reassured by that at all? I`m not   sure I am. HAMMOND: We really now have to put this, not only in the hands of the technology companies, and we have to force them to work as hard as they can   to make sure the content is good. We have to realize that it`s up to us now. HOLMES: Yeah.  HAMMOND: To be able to look at the content we see and make decisions about whether or not we believe it or not. It`s just that we have to start   thinking less about the technology and more about how it`s used. And if we`re going to regulate, it`s going to be regulating the use, not the   technology itself because the technology is here to stay. (END VIDEO CLIP) YURKEVICH: And now let`s turn to a story that as Coy would say deserves a 10 out of 10. All this black history month, the show has been highlighting   trailblazing, black Americans who made a lasting impact on the world.  And today I want to talk about Charles Richard Drew, the Father of the Blood Bank. Drew was the first black student to earn a medical doctorate   from Columbia University. He studied all things blood, like transfusions and preservation, leading to a groundbreaking discovery that made it   possible to store blood for up to a week.  This was during World War II. So Drew led a pilot program for the red cross, supplying blood around the U.S. in Great Britain, saving countless   lives.  He also invented Mobile Blood Donation Stations known as Blood Mobiles. But Drew couldn`t participate himself, even though he led these efforts. The   Red Cross refused to let black people donate blood.  I also want to highlight the achievements of Bessie Coleman, the first black woman to become a pilot. Because of her race and gender, flight   schools in the U.S. wouldn`t accept her, but that didn`t stop her dream of flying. So she decided to learn French and moved to Paris to attend a   prestigious aviation school there. She got her pilot license in 1921 and that was two years before another famous female pilot, Amelia Earhart.  When she returned to the U.S., Bessie still faced discrimination, but found work, performing aerial stunts and parachute jumps. Her dream of opening a   flight school for black pilots never came true, but her determination in breaking the mold continues to inspire not only pilots, but anyone fighting   racial and gender stereotypes.  And now I`m told it`s time for shoutouts, starting with a school across the world. This is Hillside Collegiate International School in Geoje, South   Korea. Wow. Thank you so much for tuning in.  And for a shout out a little closer to home at least my home. Shout out to my Alma Mater, Montclair High School in New Jersey. Go Mounties.  Now, before I go, I`m told tomorrow is #YourWordWednesday. So follow CNN 10`s YouTube channel or Coy on Instagram, Snapchat, or TikTok, and put your   unique vocabulary word in the comment section of the most recent post. Make sure you include your school, teacher, and mascot. And the team here will   choose a winner to work into the show.  Guys, today was so much fun. I`m Vanessa Yurkevich. Thank you for letting me join you all. I`m ready to take on the rest of the day and I hope you   are too. You are all truly what makes this CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-02-21
BETSY KLEIN, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Good morning friends. I`m Betsy Klein in Washington, filling in for Coy Wire today. I played nine fewer NFL seasons   than Coy. But I`m otherwise qualified to be here. So let`s get to it.  This is CNN 10, and it`s your CNN 10, especially on a #YourWordWednesday. So keep an ear out for your vocabulary word in today`s show.  We start in the Middle East where international communities have proposed multiple ceasefire agreements in Gaza. And that now includes the U.S. The   proposed United nations security council draft resolution is the first time that the U.S. has officially called for a ceasefire in Israel`s war against   Hamas, since it began more than four months ago.  But unlike other efforts, the U.S. is using specific language that gives Israel some wiggle room. How? Well, Algeria proposed a resolution this week   that called for an immediate ceasefire that had found some international support. But the U.S. vetoed that plan, arguing it would harm ongoing   negotiations to free Israeli hostages in Gaza. So instead the U.S. is calling for a ceasefire as soon as practical. The U.S. draft resolution also calls for the release of all remaining Israeli hostages and warns against an Israeli ground incursion into Rafah,   which is in the Southern Part of the Gaza strip bordering Egypt. Hundreds of thousands of displaced Palestinians have fled there during Israel`s war   against Hamas.  Let`s turn to CNN`s International Diplomatic Editor, Nic Robertson, to learn more about why the U.S. is putting out this draft resolution now. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  There were two takeaways here. One is that at a diplomatic level, the United States comes   to the rescue of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. That`s certainly how he`ll read the situation despite the very clear pressure being put on him   by the White House with the wording of this resolution. Why do I say this? Because in essence, the United States is heading off or providing an alternative resolution to the one that Algeria is putting   forward which has wide international support for an immediate ceasefire. The Prime Minister here hasn`t responded, publicly, yet, at least, to the   U.S. version. But the U.S. version is still very, very clear. It says the conditions right now for a military incursion into Rafah would quite   literally result in more civilian deaths, potentially push people across the border, weaken international security and peace, certainly in the   region around here. So it`s with very high levels of caution and guidance for the Israeli government, but the Prime Minister here is likely to read this as he is   being given more time, because the wording from the United States is not a permanent ceasefire, and it says, when it is practicably possible. (END VIDEOTAPE) KLEIN:  Ten second trivia time. Which country launched the first satellite called Sputnik One into space?  Was at the United States, China, the Soviet Union, Japan.  If you said the Soviet Union, you are out of this world. On October 4th, 1957, the Soviet Union successfully launched Sputnik One. That satellite   was only about the size of a beach fall and weighed just under 185 pounds.  We head to space next, where a satellite from the European Space Agency is expected to make a fiery reentry today. The agency`s space debris office   said the satellite called ERS-2 weighed just over 5,000 pounds at around 50 miles above the Earth`s surface. The satellite is expected to break apart   and the majority of the fragments will burn up in the atmosphere.  Now, some of those fragments could reach the planet`s surface. But the agency says it won`t contain any harmful substances and it will most likely   fall into the ocean.  We turn now to our Bill Weir, who explains how the astronomical number of manmade objects orbiting the planet has turned some space officials   compunction into action. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  We all drop things around the house. PIERS SELLERS, ASTRONAUT:  Guys, I think my spatula has escaped. WEIR:  So when astronaut Piers Sellers dropped a spatula while spreading putty on the space shuttle it was relatable news. SELLERS:  I see it on there. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  OK. We`ll take a look. WEIR (voice-over):  But while a spatula in space was still novel in 2006, it seems quaint now, because nearly 70 years after Sputnik the moon holds   tons of human trash. And the final frontier is filthy with rocket fumes and orbiting junk. Check out this NASA time-lapse. Each dot a manmade object bigger than a softball flying 10 times faster than a bullet. The Website Orbiting now is   tracking over 8,300 satellites, most of them put there by private companies like SpaceX. And over time, they will only add to the hundred million tiny   pieces of manmade debris in orbit. WEIR (on camera):  So behind us is the National Air and Space Museum. Did they have an exhibit on space junk? Is it time we started paying attention?  RON LOPEZ, PRESIDENT OF ASTROSCALE U.S.:  There`s been discussion about it and it is time that we pay attention to the issue. WEIR (voice-over):  Ron Lopez heads the American branch of Astroscale, a Japanese entry into the growing field of orbital debris removal. LOPEZ:  The interesting metric is that over the next ten years, were going to launch three times as much into space as we have launched since Sputnik,   since the beginning of the space age. Three times as much in just the next ten years. WEIR (voice-over):  While they`re a long way from flying garbage trucks. Astroscale just launched a second test mission and funded only by private   investment recently proved that they can use magnets to catch and potentially extend the lives of dying satellites. In 2018, a team from the U.K. proved that space junk can be snared with a net, which helps with traffic control up there, but does nothing to stop   dead satellites from burning into countless pieces of metal, throwing off remnants that can stay in our skies for years. WEIR:  The launches are almost a weekly or daily occurrence. Is that having an effect on the stratosphere? TROY THORNBERRY, RESEARCH PHYSICIST, NOAA CHEMICAL SCIENCES LABORATORY:  Yes. So as we see this increase in space traffic, we see significantly   increased initiatives. And something we`ve been talking about is adding a lot of material to the stratosphere that was never there before. All of the sort of the mass of material that we put into space doesn`t all just stay there. And when it`s deorbited, it basically acts in the same way   that a meteoroid does. WEIR (voice-over):  With special high-flying jets, a team from NOAA recently discovered that 10% of the particles in the stratosphere contain   bits of rocket and satellite metal. And in the next few decades, it could be 50 percent, matching the amount created naturally by meteorites.   Scientists worry that this could eventually alter earth`s climate. So this summer, Japan and NASA aim to launch the world`s first biodegradable satellite made mostly from wood. (END VIDEOTAPE) KLEIN:  And now, let`s dive into a story that as Coy would say deserves a 10 out of 10. CNN`s Jeanne Moos gets to the bottom of an underwater   investigation bubbling up in the stingray tank at a North Carolina aquarium. This one will surely hook you. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT:  How could a stingray named Charlotte end up pregnant when no male stingray has ever been her tank? The $64,000 question. Who`s the daddy? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We think Charlotte is her own daddy.  MOOS:  Staff at the aquarium in shark lab by team ECCO in North Carolina are so bonded with Charlotte. She lets them caress her. When they found a   lump, they feared it was cancer and ultrasound proved otherwise.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  There`s a baby. MOOS:  Several babies, but how? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  She has always been a single ray. MOOS (on camera):  She needs ray tinder. (Voice-over):  The most likely explanation, something called parthenogenesis. I`ve been calling it, do it yourself reproductive. Sort of a virgin birth. The female`s egg becomes an embryo without fertilization. But there`s another far less likely theory. Two male sharks   that were placed in the tank. This is Mo and this is Larry named after, You Know Who. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  No matter what you --  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  How dare you strike a mother with an incident in his arms.  MOOS:  The staff found bites on Charlotte and male sharks tend to bite during mating. But experts at the Georgia aquarium and elsewhere say a   shark stingray hookup would be anatomically impossible. The aquarium plans to do DNA testing when the babies are born. The aquarium may not yet know. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  How`d that baby get here.  MOOS:  But if immaculate conception is the best theory. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  So we`re telling everyone don`t drink the water from this tank. MOOS:  Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) KLEIN:  Thanks to Ms. Giles` Social Studies class in Calgary, Alberta, Canada, for submitting our #YourWordWednesday winner. Compunction, a now   meaning distress over an anticipated action or result. Nice job. And thank you for helping make us smarter today.  OK, we made it to the end of the show. But I couldn`t leave you guys without some special school shoutouts. We see you Heather Taddonio`s class   at Evergreen Community Charter School in Asheville, North Carolina. Go Wolf Pack. And special recognition goes to E.L. Haynes Public Charter School   right here in our nation`s capital, Washington D.C.  Thanks for joining me today as I filled in for Coy. You all are what makes this show so special. You are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-02-22
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Good morning, everyone. And welcome to CNN 10. I`m Omar Jimenez, not Coy Wire, though, I will settle for the fact that I   have hair, sorry, Coy. I`m just filling in for today and tomorrow, so don`t worry.  In today`s show, we`re going to explore border security, but not in the way you might expect. In the news lately, the focus has been on the U.S.   border, illegal immigration and how Congress may or may not fix things. But U.S. officials do more than just secure checkpoints. And our first story   CNN`s Josh Campbell goes behind the scenes with U.S. Customs and Border Protection as they use AI artificial intelligence to detect drugs, being   smuggled into the country. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JOSH CAMPBELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: In the short time we`ve been here, this packet of fentanyl was seized in the mail. The sender of this envelope now   under federal investigation.  (Voice-over): The deadly drug detected by Artificial Intelligence, its street value -- UNIDENTIFIED MALE: About $100,000 worth of fentanyl. CAMPBELL (on camera): Every piece of mail, every package entering the United States is scanned by CBP. Right now, that`s done by X-ray with   officers staring at images across their screen, if they become suspicious, they open the package up to determine whether a threat is inside. (Voice-over): But A.I. could revolutionize the way U.S. Customs and Border Protection does battle against smugglers. (On camera): We`re here near Los Angeles International Airport in a facility that processes over 240 million packages every single year.   Officers seizing numerous items including counterfeit merchandise, illegal food as well as precursors to the deadly drug, fentanyl. Now, in order to help stop America`s fentanyl epidemic, officers are now relying on Artificial Intelligence like this system. A package is sent   through this main system called IDSS, this is similar to what you might find in a hospital or at an airport. A 3D image is taken, and then sent to   what`s called the student. This is the halo system, artificial intelligence at work. Unlike old technologies such as x-rays, this system is constantly   learning and teaching itself. CAMPBELL (voice-over): The mission of this AI system, part of a CBP pilot program, is to identify patterns, how smugglers are concealing fentanyl in   order to evade detection. (On camera): At the end of the whole process, this system will get a grade. After scanning 10,000 images, an officer will look to determine how well   the system actually did. Determine whether this is the type of machine that CBP might want to roll out to its multiple facilities across the nation. (Voice-over): This pilot program is currently being used for cargo arriving by air to LAX. CBP hopes to expand the use of AI to other critical points   of entry into the United States.  One looming question with well-funded drug cartels known to adopt advanced technology of their own, how long will AI provide U.S. authorities a   cutting-edge advantage to stay ahead of the threat? (END VIDEOTAPE) JIMENEZ: So when we think about border security, we`re usually thinking of efforts on land, but waterways also need focus too. Our Senior National   Correspondent, David Culver gets a rare inside look at how U.S. border agents defend the Pacific ocean from a rising trend in smuggling migrants   and drugs. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DAVID CULVER, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Hours before the sun`s up over San Diego, we get on board for our rare look at border security from   the Pacific Ocean.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It`s going to be four to five-foot seas out there.  CULVER: OK. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So we`re going to be getting tossed around. CULVER: Suspected migrant smugglers are about to make a drop. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 200 yards at the door right now. CULVER: Suddenly we`re zero to 60. On the water, that is fast and cold. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can`t go through the kelp. We`ll get stuck.  CULVER: This is a side of U.S. Customs and Border Protection you don`t often see and for good reason. With border patrol on land, these agents   handle the skies and seas. They`re part of AMO, Air and Marine Operations. KURT NAGEL, MARINE INTERDICTION AGENT: It`s going to be just off our starboard beam heading right for the beach. CULVER: And what does it sound like, a boat or jet ski. NAGEL: They don`t have a visual of it. So all they know is that there`s a radar contact eastbound, right behind us back here. CULVER: Headed our way. So they kill the lights and we wait in the dark. NAGEL: The pursuit`s coming right to us right now. CULVER: Coming this way? NAGEL: Yeah. CULVER: After a few minutes, still nothing. Seems the suspected smuggler on a jet ski turned back. NAGEL: There`s a lot of them coming so we`re more constantly busy. CULVER: In the past year, the agency has become increasingly deadly, but like drug trafficking, migrant smuggling is a business. NAGEL: They`re reckless with their lives. They`re reckless with other people`s lives. CULVER: Do we know, Kurt, are they -- are they connected often to cartels? Do we know their background? NAGEL: At a smaller level, yes. This is all cartel-driven. CULVER: They often launch in the dark of night, leaving from various points along the Mexican coast. Once they crossed the maritime boundary line, the   ocean`s border separating the U.S. and Mexico, the smugglers usually head to the beaches of San Diego County where they drop off the migrants.   Though, more recently, they`ve ended up cruising even farther north to places like Malibu. Officials tell us the number of incidents along the southwest coast is up threefold over the last five years. And they`ve migrants like these often   pay tens of thousands of dollars for a one-way ticket on the open ocean. (On camera): And you`ll have people, Captain, actually tried to swim? CAPT. JIM SPITTER, U.S. COAST GUARD, SAN DIEGO SECTOR: They often do it at night and under fog. And sadly is tragic, some of them don`t always make   it. CULVER: That`s where the Coast Guard comes in. We joined them on a deterrence patrol positioned just north of the maritime boundary line with   a view of the southern border I`d never seen before. (On camera): And then right there, that`s all Mexico. SPITTER: Pretty much right in front of us, yeah, it`s Mexico. CULVER: The Coast Guard here focused primarily on keeping folks alive. To do that, you need to keep the lines of communication open. SPITTER: There really are no egos amongst the different organizations. We all speak on the same frequency so when you -- when somebody gets notified   and were all notified at the same time. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Of your 350, 28 nautical miles, that`s where he`s at -- off your 350. CULVER: That frequency also shared by the CBP`s air assets, watching and tracking from above. SEAN RANDICH, CBP AGENT: Yeah, David, so when we do detect a target, I hook it so the system is now tracking it. And we had we get everything down   here, right? The coordinates, where it`s at, how fast it`s going. CULVER: That information relayed to crews on land and sea. BRANDON TUCKER, DIRECTOR, AIR AND MARINE OPERATIONS: They have to be prepared for anything on the water. And you`re doing that at night, pitch   black, six-foot seas. It can be very challenging. CULVERS: Moments like these where boats filled with migrants rushed towards the shore line a near nightly occurrence now. TUCKER: Over the last three years, we`ve seen an exponential increase in maritime smuggling. They don`t understand fully the peril that these   smugglers are putting them in. It`s the callous nature of their operations and how they just don`t care about human life. (END VIDEOTAPE) JIMENEZ: Ten second trivia time.  Where was the game of chess created? China, India, Russia, or Egypt.  If you said India, checkmate, you got it. Chess originated in Sixth Century India during the Gupta dynasty. The game today is now played in more than   170 countries.  And now let`s crown a story that as Coy would say deserves a 10 out of 10. We want to highlight a young, talented migrant girl from Columbia who has   found a home here in New York as a nationally-ranked chess player. Katie Vasquez with NETTV shares her journey. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KATIE VASQUEZ, NET TV CORRESPONDENT: Watching Mariangel Vargas play chess. You might be surprised to learn she`s only been playing for a year. MARIANGEL VARGAS CHESS PLAYER: I feel, like, nervous and the same time, like, when you play, you feel like you`re very focus in the game.  VASQUEZ: The 12-year-old grew up in Columbia where she says chess isn`t common. But something her family was familiar with was gang violence.  ALEXANDRA GOMEZ, MOTHER (through translation): They forced me to kneel and I refused. They threw me, hit me, and look out their weapons and put them   to my head.  VASQUEZ: In October, 2022, Mariangel`s parents decided the danger was too much and made the brutal journey traveling through the desert in Mexico to   come to the U.S. As Mariangel was adjusting to her new life in New York, she saw a flyer at her school, PS11, advertising Spanish chess lessons. The   charity in charge, the gift of chess had noticed the influx of Spanish- speaking migrants and founder Russell Makofsky wanted to help. RUSSELL MAKOFSKY, FOUNDER, THE GIFT OF CHESS: So it`s like a curriculum in itself with incredible educational benefit. And then once you learn the   game, you can begin interact with your classmates that speak English because you`re sharing that, that, that language, that universal language   of the game of chess. VASQUEZ: Quickly, Russell noticed Mariangel becoming a master. MAKOFSKY: She`s currently ranked in the top 50 of players, girls her age in the United States. VASQUEZ: Her father says she`s achieving the dream that they came here for. (END VIDEOTAPE) JIMENEZ: All right, everyone. We hope you enjoyed our show today. We know border security can sometimes be a divisive topic, but we hope you learn   something new that you can use in your conversations at school and beyond.  Now it`s the best part of the show. Shout out time. We`re going to go to Shepherd Pratt School in Rockville, Maryland. Thank you for watching. And   also special shout out goes to Haven Middle School in Evanston, Illinois. Shout out Evanston. I went to college in Northwestern which is also in   Evanston. Thanks for hanging out everyone. I`m Omar Jimenez. It was a pleasure being with you this morning. I`m going to be right back here tomorrow to finish   out this week. Have a great Thursday. END 

Date: 2024-02-23
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Good morning, everyone. Happy Friday. This is CNN 10. I`m Omar Jimenez. I am so happy to be back. Just filling in for Coy   Wire today, though. You may make a surprise appearance in some way. You never know. But the news doesn`t take a day off. So let`s get right into   it. We`ve got a jampacked show for you.  We begin in Sudan where there is a major humanitarian crisis that really isn`t getting enough attention. This all started when a war broke out in   April of last year, between Sudan`s army and a paramilitary group called the Rapid Response Forces or the RSF.  Now, during the beginning stages of the war, the RSF took control of most of the country`s capital city of Khartoum, as well as Darfur, and other   regions in Western Sudan. Late last week, though, the Sudanese army claimed its first major advance in 10 months taking back part of the city of   Omdurman, but the RSF has disputed those claims.  The effects of this war have created a tragic scene in Sudan where thousands have been killed in nearly 8 million people displaced. According   to the U.N. office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs, nearly 18 million people are facing acute hunger, as well as civilian infrastructure   and health facilities being destroyed.  Internet blackouts have limited communication where many are unable to seek safe zones or access healthcare and banking services. Children have been   greatly impacted as well with some 19 million of them not attending school. The U.S. has determined that both sides of this conflict have committed war   crimes, but is holding the RSF responsible for crimes against humanity and ethnic cleansing in Sudan.  Now, I know that was a lot to take in, but we want to bring you the latest on this humanitarian crisis. So we`re going to turn now to international   correspondent, Larry Madowo. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Sudanese armed forces celebrate as they advance in Omdurman, the twin city of the capital   Khartoum. The army releasing these videos last week, seeing it as a win in its war against the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces. In North Darfur, the agony of Sudan`s children, the youngest victims of a war that has raged for 10 months. This small clinic run by the aid group   Doctors Without Borders in the Zamzam camp is the only one for miles. A child dies every two hours here, the agency says, as a war has led to   catastrophic cases of malnutrition. CHEICK TRAORE, EMERGENCY COORDINATOR, DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS:  We have over 200 patients every day waiting for treatment. And they are not coming   only within the camp, they are coming also from the surrounding area, seeking, looking for health care. MADOWO (voice-over):  They are overwhelmed that these mothers and their children have nowhere else to go. ASHIA ABUBAKER ADAM, DISPLACED SUDANESE MOTHER (through translator):  We are out of everything, even wheat. Now we just get insignificant amounts of   food to make it through the day. I have five children apart from this one. MADOWO (voice-over):  Sudan has the world`s largest displacement crisis. The U.N. says as 15% of the population has fled their homes. Humanitarian   workers say it is not getting enough funding or attention. MARY LOUISE EAGLETON, UNICEF SUDAN DEPUTY REPRESENTATIVE:  And feels like the country has really been abandoned and the children and the country`s   children have really been abandoned. What this means for families and children is that they`re facing a lethal combination of displacement,   hunger and disease outbreaks. TOBY HARWARD, U.N. DEPUTY HUMANITARIAN COORDINATOR FOR SUDAN:  It is arguably the biggest humanitarian crisis today. It is bigger than the other   crisis that gets a lot more attention. MADOWO (voice-over):  Everything is in short supply in Sudan, and a ceasefire appears unlikely. Those caught in the middle of another war worry   and the wait.  (END VIDEOTAPE) JIMENEZ:  Now, for our next story, we head to Europe where the European commission recently announced a very ambitious goal to help cut down planet   heating pollution and carbon emissions. But some people are not on board with this proposal, our International Climate Editor, Angela Dewan   explains. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANGELA DEWAN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CLIMATE EDITOR:  The European Union recently announced one of the world`s most ambitious goals to tackle   climate change. It wants to cut 90% of its carbon pollution by 2040, that`s from 1990 levels. There`s a lot standing in their way. Farmers, for   example, have been protesting for months against some of the E.U. strongest climate policies, because they say it`s too hard to keep food growing for   their people if they have to do these new measures, like using certain types of fertilizers. Auto makers, for example, don`t want to phase out combustion engine cars quite as quickly as the European Union does. They want to get rid of   combustion engine cars by 2035. And a lot of countries are saying that`s too soon.  Another sticking point is defense. So Ursula von der Leyen, and the President of the E.U. announced she`s going to run for reelection. She made   climate center of her agenda in her last term, but this term climate was largely missing from her agenda speech. And that`s largely because defense   has really taken over the climate agenda in the last few months.  So what happens next? The E.U. is notorious for taking months and months to get legislation finalized. This is going to be up to a year of talks to   discuss exactly how to reach this 90% target. And while there`s broad support for that target in the current parliament, that all may change in   June. There are elections coming up and the greens parties are expected to lose a lot of their seats to conservatives and even far right parties, that   may not be so progressive and ambitious on climate.  So what that will look like in the future? We`ll see. (END VIDEOTAPE) JIMENEZ:  All right, everybody. Ten second trivia. Which country became the first European nation to establish a national parks system.  Is it England, Sweden, France, or Germany?  If you said Sweden, shout it from the nearest mountain top, it is Sweden. In 1909, the country designated nine areas of its country as national park,   the first nation to do so in Europe.  All right, speaking of Sweden, that`s where some we`re going to call them, brave, young students are taking a school course in a chilling situation.   Quite literally, dozens of children, fully clothed are jumping into this frigid lake. Is this an ice sponge challenge? No, it`s actually part of the   elementary school curriculum where it teaches kids survival training on what to do if they ever fall through the ice from one of the many lakes in   the country. As you see students with big backpacks, strapped on, learn how to use ice spikes to help pull themselves out of the icy waters. These classes are   gaining attention now with a rise in ice incidents in the country.  All right, as you know, today is Friday and we couldn`t let you go the whole week without getting at least some FaceTime from our very own Coy   Wire. Recently, Coy had a chance to speak with a bunch of celebrities who graciously offer some tips for success specifically for you. Check this   out.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s that one secret to success? GARY VAYNERCHUK, ENTREPRENEUR:  Not judging yourself too early. You know, everybody wants everything so fast out, you know, and the reality is real   stuff takes time. JELLY ROLL, MUSICIAN: The seeds you plant today will grow in 10 years if you water them for the next 10 years. And that`s the mistake people make,   they plant seeds and they forget to water them. They think, well, no, I planted that seed. That should be growing. No, no, you got to water. Every   single day for all 10 years. PEYTON MANNING, RETIRED QUARTERBACK:  Have goals, have dreams and work hard to accomplish those goals. JOE BURROW, NFL QUARTERBACK:  Focus on the process, don`t focus on results. NE-YO, MUSICIAN:  Whoever you are, once you figure out who you are, just be that person regardless to anyone else`s opinion, regardless of what anybody   else says or thanks. You are not built to blend in, blend out by all means. CEEDEE LAMB, NFL WIDE RECEIVER:  Follow your mind, follow your passion and follow your own dreams. Don`t let no one negate it. Tell you otherwise,   believe in yourself and work hard.  WIRE:  I love that. MANNING:  You are a 10 out 10. ROLL:  You are a 10 out 10. UNIDENTIFIED MALES:  You are a 10 out 10. NE-YO:  You are a 10 out 10, salute.   (END VIDEOTAPE) JIMENEZ:  What a great way to end the week. Thank you Coy for grabbing those interviews and thank you all for letting me guest host this amazing   show. Coy will be back next week. Don`t worry. But before I go, I got to shout out some of you. I`m looking at you, Barret Traditional Middle school in Louisville, Kentucky. Keep climbing    Hilltoppers.  Also, I want to shout out Delaware Valley High School in Milford, Pennsylvania. Thank you for making this show special. Have a great weekend.   And until next time, thank you for letting me be part of the CNN 10 family. END 

Date: 2024-02-26
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up, lovely people. Rise up, pump to be back with you after a Georgia winter break. And welcome to CNN 10, the best 10   minutes in news because of you.  It`s motivation Monday, so here`s a thought, life presents choices. Then we make decisions. Those decisions influence our destiny. Let`s start this   week strong, shall we, with some historic news from space. The Odysseus lunar lander nickname "Odie" or the IM-1, became the first U.S. made   spacecraft to land on the moon in 50 years. It was a bit of a nail biter though. According to the craft developer intuitive machines, which says   engineers had to overcome navigation issues in order to make the landing possible.  The spacecraft position became a concern when flight controller said they were getting weak signals from the vehicle after a tense weight, intuitive   machines eventually confirmed that the lander was upright and able to send data back to mission control.  The purpose of this mission is to assess the environment of the moon`s south pole as NASA is planning to send astronauts there towards the end of   2026. This landing comes after a different us company, boarded its landing attempt last month.  Now, at the same time, the U.S. is accomplishing this feat. Other countries are looking to make their giant leaps to the moon as well. Our Space and   Defense Correspondent, Kristin Fisher has more. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT: Humans landed on the moon for the first time over 50 years ago. Back then it was really only the   U.S. and Russia that were in the space race. Now, the European Space Agency says there are over 100 lunar missions planned for the moon before 2030,   and they`re made up of countries and companies all over the world.  So why is everyone racing to the moon again? Well, the main reasons are resources, exploration, and politics.  The moon is home to many resources like rare earth minerals and elements like the isotope helium three that could prove useful to mine. Helium three   is hard to find on earth, but it can be found all over the moon and is theoretically vital towards nuclear fusion of possibly game changing, clean   energy source. Studies have theorized that water in ice form may be available in large quantities on the moon and mining could provide water and oxygen. The   critical elements needed to make rocket fuel and allow further exploration.  The U.S., Russia, and China all have plans to establish permanent bases on the moon, offering a jumping off point to explore Mars and go even deeper   into outer space.  But how legal is all of this potential activity on the moon? The 1960, `70 United Nations Outer Space treaty is signed by most countries when it comes   to lunar laws. But experts say that it needs some updating. It outlines that the moon should be the province of all mankind and should be used   exclusively for peaceful purposes. So military bases, nuclear weapons and weapons testing are forbidden.  The treaty also stresses cooperation, but critics say that it lacks any means of enforcement, which could prove diplomatically dangerous if it`s   exploited.  Now, in recent years, the United States has engaged in the new round of space diplomacy called the Artemis Accords. So far, there are more than 30   signatory nations, but notably China and Russia have not participated.  Many scientists are concerned that mining and development could affect experiments and scientific projects that are already in place. So although   there is this renewed rush to get to the moon, the future of diplomacy on the moon is a critical question. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Pop quiz, hot shot.  What was the name of the first modern credit card?  The Diner`s Club, Mastercard, Visa, or American Express.  If you said The Diner`s Club, put your hands up. The card was put into use in 1950, initially used only in local restaurants before expanding to   include retailers. One year later, The Diner`s Club had 42,000 members spanning major cities across the U.S.  Now, here`s a wild statistic for you. The total amount of Americans credit card debt surge passed a trillion dollars in 2023, but some economists say   it`s not necessarily a bad thing citing that the U.S. job market remains solid and wage growth is beating inflation.  Some economists are also saying that Americans are currently better positioned to pay down their debts. And in some cases they`re making enough   money to also stash some money away in their savings accounts.  Now, having conversations about your money can be tough. Like if a group of friends is headed out, maybe to get a bite to eat and we just don`t have   the dough to go. It can be tough to say I`m on a budget, bruh.  Well, a new TikTok trend created by comedian Lukas Battle aims at taking the shame out of being frugal, saving money. He uses a term called "Loud   Budgeting." And our Vanessa Yurkevich met with him to learn more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): In an online world where opulence is king.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I was sad, so I went shopping. YURKEVICH (voice-over): This was a joke. LUKAS BATTLE, COMEDIAN AND WRITER: "Loud Budgeting" is a new concept I`m introducing for 2024. It`s the opposite of quiet luxury. If your friend   texts you, I want to hang out. You say, I don`t want to spend gas money on coming to you to hear you talk about your ex for three hours. YURKEVICH (voice-over): Comedian and Gen Zer Lukas Battle, inadvertently started a new financial trend. YURKEVICH: What is "Loud Budgeting?" BATTLE: "Loud Budgeting" is kind of new terminology for people to use when they don`t want to spend money. And I think it`s a term people can use that   doesn`t make talking about money awkward. YURKEVICH (voice-over): The joke took off with his more than 600,000 TikTok followers, financial influencers, and even himself. YURKEVICH: Were you surprised by how many people have related to it? BATTLE: Yes, only because, and I would love to say I`m a genius, brilliant economist, but this is like a concept that`s been around. And I really do   think the loud part in front of it is what people are kind of drawn to. YURKEVICH (voice-over): Gen Z and millennials especially feel the burden of inflation, expensive housing, and student loan payments. Budgeting has been   around since the beginning of time, but in just the four weeks since Battle came up with "Loud Budgeting," more and more people are feeling they now   have permission to talk about it. YURKEVICH: What do you think about that, being transparent about the fact that you`re on a budget? JAMES SAMPSON JR. SOCIAL WORKER: I think more so it should be normalized about budgeting and saving. YURKEVICH: Why do you think so many people are resonating with it? VIVIAN TU, FOUNDER, YOU RICH BFF: Because for so long we have been shamed into silence. "Loud Budgeting" is amazing because instead of having to hide   and like be ashamed about the fact that you have debt or need a budget or want to save for certain things in your life, you can proudly say them and   share them with your friends. YURKEVICH (voice-over): Gen Z and millennials, social media`s most active users, were either entering the job market or working when the pandemic   hit. Despite having the lowest financial literacy of any generation, recent economic uncertainty has made them the hungriest for information.  TU: With the social edification of society, keeping up with the Joneses is no longer the Joneses. We`re keeping up with the Kardashians. So we`re   starting to get visualizations of wealth that most regular people will never, ever see in their lives. And so if I`m a young person and I`m in an environment where I feel like it`s going to be challenging for me to succeed, I want to arm myself with   as much information as I possibly can to give myself that leg up. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, we have two stories about two trailblazers as we celebrate the final week of black history month. The   first person who`s made a lasting impact is  Jane Bolin born in 1908. She was super focused and dedicated as a kid graduating high school at just 15 years old, persevering the challenges of   growing up as a black girl in that era, she`d go on to become the first black woman to graduate from Yale Law School. First to join the New York   City bar Association and the first black woman in the U.S. to become a judge.  She served on the bench for 40 years where she ended segregated childcare facilities and race-based assignments of probation officers. She said she   wasn`t concerned about being first, second, or even last because her primary concern was her work. Next up, Max Robinson, who in 1978 became the first black person to anchor a nightly network news show on ABC`s World News Tonight.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) MAX ROBINSON, ABC "WORLD NEWS TONIGHT" HOST: Across the country, Frank, the city of Cleveland, which has received --  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Robinson started his career nearly two decades earlier at a local news station in Virginia but his face was hidden behind a graphic. He later   moved to Washington and became the first black anchor in a major us city. Robinson became an outspoken critic of racism and of the way African   Americans were portrayed in the media. He`d go on to become one of the founders of the National Association of Black Journalists. Difference   makers leading the way.  All right, it`s time to show some love now. We`re heading all the way up north to the Aleutians Islands in Akutan, Alaska. The Akutan School. We see   you, Falcons.  And let`s keep flying high with more feathery friends. This shout out goes to The Eagles at Kennedy Middle School in Aiken, South Carolina. Thank you.   And thanks to all of you, who`ve subscribed and commented on our CNN 10 YouTube channel for your shoutout request way to start this week strong.   Let`s keep grinding and shining because that`s just what we do.  See you tomorrow lovely people. I`m Coy Wire. And we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-02-27
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up lovely people. Let`s get our energy up, up, up, and make this a terrific Tuesday. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10,   where I tell you the what, letting you decide what to think.  Tomorrow`s #YourWordWednesday, where we use your word in the show to help boost our vocabulary. So submit those words in the comment section on my   most recent post @coywire on Instagram, Snapchat, TikTok, along with the definition, your school name, your name, the city, state, teacher`s name,   if you like. Rise up. Let`s start in South Carolina, where former president Donald Trump won the Republican primary on Saturday. Trump triumphed with the nearly 60% of the   vote. He has now swept every 2024 GOP nominating contests so far and is quickly closing in on clenching the Republican nomination ahead of   November`s presidential election. After this series of decisive wins, Trump is optimistic. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DONALD TRUMP, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I have never seen the Republican Party so unified as it is right now. (CHEERING & APPLAUSE) (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Meanwhile, the former president`s Republican rival Nikki Haley is vowing to stay in the race, despite the losses, including this South   Carolina race, which is her home state, where she served as governor for six years, until 2017.  Haley says she`s committed until Super Tuesday, that`s March 5th. It`s a hugely important presidential primary election day with more states voting   than any other date. 15 states, one territory in all. Haley says she doesn`t believe Trump can beat president Joe Biden in the November general   election. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) NIKKI HALEY, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Nearly every day, Trump drives people away. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: For more on what these latest events mean for the former president`s campaign strategy going forward, here`s our Kristen Holmes. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: I`ve been talking to a lot of Trump`s campaign advisors this morning and they say it is time to move on   to the general election, regardless of whether or not Nikki Haley is still in the race. Four resounding primary wins. Every contest on the horizon,   Trump is favored. And they believe that they need to have a campaign reset ahead of November to start looking towards that general election.  Now, to be very clear, this is not a Donald Trump pivot. He`s not going to stop his messaging. He`s not going to stop being who he is. And his   campaign is very aware of the candidate that they have. This is about campaign infrastructure and about strategy. They want to build out their   operations in critical battleground states. We`re talking about Michigan, Arizona, Georgia. They also want to shift their messaging away from primary   messaging and towards President Joe Biden.  Now, you saw some of that shift in messaging from the former president himself in his speech when he didn`t mention Nikki Haley once. But I am   going to put forward a very important caveat, which was talking to Trump`s senior advisors. They know that they cannot control if he does that again.   They are trying to keep him on message. They are telling him it`s important to focus on President Joe Biden. But again, they can`t control what he   says, and he`s going to say what he feels and what he thinks.  Now, in addition to all of that, we did see in the election last night, there were some warning signs for Donald Trump in a 2024 general election   rematch with President Biden, particularly among independent voters. His team knows that. His team knows that he is a very polarizing figure, and   that is part of the reason why they believe it is important for them to start shifting towards that general election. To start going through that   data, to start coming up with a game plan to take on Joe Biden before November. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz, hot shot. Who is the only president to leave the White House and return for a second turn four years later? Thomas Jefferson, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Grover Cleveland, or George H.W. Bush.  If you said Grover Cleveland, put your hands up. He served as the 22nd and 24th president of the United States after losing his first reelection   campaign to Benjamin Harrison, he returned to defeat him in a rematch four years later. Next up, Saturday mark two years since Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine serving as the impetus to this ongoing war. And now the   Ukrainian military says it does not have enough ammunition or money and it`s calling on the United States to help them further.  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy told CNN that millions of people could die if U.S. lawmakers don`t approve more aid. President Joe Biden   says continuing to support Ukraine is important and it`s a matter of national security, both abroad. And in the U.S. He will host a meeting with   the top four congressional leaders. Senate majority leader, Chuck Schumer, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, House Speaker Mike Johnson, and   House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries to discuss. Johnson has been resistant to sending further aid without addressing U.S. border security more thoroughly. The Biden administration and U.S. Congress   have already directed approximately 75 billion worth of humanitarian, financial, and military aid to Ukraine. Our Christiane Amanpour shows us   now what life looks like in three Ukrainian cities as this war drags on. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR (voice-over): This bookstore is called Sens or "The Meaning" and opening in Kyiv just days   before the Russian war enters a third year sends a clear message. And Ukraine`s greatest living novelist, Andrey Kurkov tells us there is much to say about Ukraine`s culture, identity and resistance. He wrote the   foreword for this tome full of 12th century artifacts. AMANPOUR: So when Putin says this is all greater Russia, what`s your answer? ANDREY KURKOV, AUTHOR, "THE SILVER BONE": Well, he`s silly. And he`s not a historian. Kyiv is 1,540 years old. Moscow is only 870 years old. AMANPOUR (voice-over): Ukrainian identity helps them fight and resist, says Kurkov, reminding us that Russians have looted and destroyed libraries,   theaters and museums in parts they now occupy. Kurkov, like most Ukrainians, see themselves, their land, as the front line between the authoritarian and the democratic world. Kyiv is further away from the fighting, but over in the northeast, Kharkiv, the second largest city, the danger is real and ever present. Some 40 miles   from the Russia border, their massive S-300 missiles reached the city in less than 40 seconds, no time to hide. Memorials to the recent dead spring   up all over. This Kharkiv radio station is called "Boiling Over." It started up 10 years ago after Russia`s first invasion as an alternate voice. Natalka, the radio host, tells us it`s also become a sounding board for the terrified and depressed Kharkiv listeners. "Feedback can be varied," she tells us. "Sometimes they just thank me for the show, and for the fact that they got out of bed thanks to the program.   And I consider this a victory, because it could be someone in a state of absolute despair. Lychakiv Cemetery in the western city of Lviv is like cemeteries all over Ukraine today.  Two years ago, this was a grass field. Today, it`s a field of flags and the graves of those who`ve fallen defending this country.  A woman seems to be talking to her fallen loved one. And this widow, Nataliya, moves in for a kiss. Her husband, who had volunteered for the eastern front, was killed just shy of his 30th   birthday. "I`m proud of my husband because his sacrifice is worth a lot," says Nataliya.  (On camera): On this two-year anniversary, families are asking whether Ukraine can continue leaving it up to their volunteers or whether there   needs to be a call-up to mobilize for the Front. (Voice-over): Nataliya agrees. "Yes, definitely," she says, "because, if we don`t defend ourselves, what kind of fate awaits us next? And if we don`t   defend our lands, Russia will be here soon." And that`s the point. Starting a third year of full-scale war against the Russian invasion, they are heavily outmanned and vital weapons and   ammunition for their fight are tangled up in Washington`s political gridlock. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a new species of animal in Japan. And you know what, I was today years old when I learned that   scientists discover about 18,000 new plant and animal species each year. But this one very cool. The skeleton panda sea squirt officially recognized   even though "a-panda-ntly," it was first seen years ago. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is one of Japan`s new species. The skeleton panda sea squirt, the distinctive sea squirt first caught the attention of a   researcher in 2018.  NAOHIRO HASEGAWA, RESEARCHER, HOKKAIDO UNIVERSITY (through translation): The white parts that look like bones are the blood vessels that run   horizontally through the sea squirts` gills. The black parts on the head that look like a panda`s eyes and nose are just a pattern, and we don`t   really know why the pattern is there.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is the first-time scientists have studied the tiny sea creature, which can measure up to two centimeters long, which is less   than an inch. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: All right, shout out time now. This one goes to the Thunderbirds at Zia Middle School, bringing the Thunder from Las Cruces, New Mexico. Let`s   go.  And this shout out goes to the "sand-sational" Stingrays of Sumner High School in Riverview, Florida, officially. Awesome.  Remember, #YourWordWednesday tomorrow. Submit those vocab words @coywire on social. See you tomorrow, lovely people, rise up. END 

Date: 2024-02-28
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up lovely people. Welcome to CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news, where we tell you the what, letting you decide   what to think. I`m your boy, Coy. We`re going to start with a freaking, freaking, freaking, remix pop quiz, hotshot.  If a social media company prevents you from voicing your opinion, because it doesn`t approve of what you`re saying, has it violated your right to   free speech?  Yes, no, maybe, so.  All right. This one`s tricky. So tricky, in fact, it`s currently a question in front of the Supreme Court. See, after former president Donald Trump and   other prominent conservatives have accused social media giants of censoring conservatives online, Texas and Florida both passed laws that prohibit   these companies from removing or demoting content that expresses certain viewpoints.  This week, the Supreme Court heard oral arguments to determine if those laws are legal. The Florida`s Solicitor General argued that the social   media companies became as successful as they have because they market themselves as platforms for free speech. Listen.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) HENRY WHITAKER, FLORIDA SOLICITOR GENERAL: Now that they host the communications of billions of users, they sing a very different tune. They   now say that they are in fact editors of their user speech, rather like a newspaper. They contend that they possess a broad first amendment right to   censor anything they host on their sites, even when doing so contradicts their own representations to consumers. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Now, the social media companies argue that the laws violate their own first amendment speech rights. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) PAUL CLEMENT, ATTORNEY REPRESENTING SOCIAL MEDIA COMPANIES: It interferes with editorial discretion. It compels speech. It discriminates on the basis   of content, speaker and view -- and viewpoint. And it does all this in the name of promoting free speech, but loses sight of the first principle of   the first amendment, which is it only applies to state action. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: The justices expressed skepticism of the Florida and Texas laws, and seem to be divided along non-ideological lines as they tried to determine   whether social media giants have created a public square, if you will, that would allow them to be treated differently under the law than other private   companies.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) CHIEF JUSTICE JOHN ROBERTS: And I wonder since we`re talking about the first amendment, whether our first concern should be with the state   regulating what, you know, we have called the modern public square. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: But not all the justices appeared skeptical of the laws. Check out this one question from justice, Samuel Alito, to an attorney for the social   media companies. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JUSTICE SAMUEL ALITO: Content moderation. Could you define that for me? Is it anything more than a euphemism for censorship? (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Now, for the moment, several of the justices seem to be looking for a possible way to keep the laws on hold, to allow the lower course to look   more deeply at the impacts of them on a wide range of social media sites.  So as for that pop quiz, as for now, nobody seems to have the right answer, so if you have a minute or two, go on pause and discuss.  Now, we`re going to take an in depth look at a new program in Los Angeles, aimed at helping to provide shelter for people experiencing homelessness.   Our Jake Tapper recently traveled to L.A. the second largest city in the U.S. to meet with the mayor and some of the folks utilizing this temporary   housing to learn more about the program. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR (voice over): This is the sound of someone`s entire life essentially being thrown in the trash. In the middle of recent record-  breaking rain in Los Angeles, the city is today clearing an encampment for unhoused people. Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass campaigned on fixing the city`s homeless crisis. This is theoretically part of that fix. MAYOR KAREN BASS (D), LOS ANGELES: This is exactly why I ran for mayor. This is the reason why --  TAPPER (voice over): Mayor Bass took me to see the cleanup firsthand, getting people out of tents and onto buses and into temporary housing. They   leave behind anything they cannot carry. JAMES, MOVING INTO TEMPORARY HOUSING: I was recently stabbed about two weeks ago. This is like a Godsend right now, like, getting indoors and   being away from this. TAPPER (voice over): Inside Safe is the name of Mayor Bass` flagship program to tear down these encampments and being L.A.`s unhoused indoors. TAPPER (on camera): So, when I spoke to you about a year ago, you talked about your goal for homelessness and the end of homelessness in Los Angeles   by the end of your first term. BASS: Well, I think that progress is going well. We destroyed the myth that people do not want to leave the tents, people don`t want to leave the cars   and their RVs. We`ve had the opposite problem. We have more people willing to leave than we have rooms for. TAPPER (voice over): In a remarkable new study, researchers at the University of California San Francisco surveyed thousands of the homeless   in California. Nearly 90% of participants said high housing costs were a barrier to their moving into permanent housing. And the majority of those   surveyed did want to get off the streets. JAMES: There are people on the street that don`t want to be housed, but most of them do, you know? It`s just finding the right housing for them and   the right situation. TAPPER (voice over): Major factors to finding housing are high rents and low income. Then, of course, there`s also discrimination and bad credit.   Some people don`t even have ID. Some have been evicted before. Many are dealing with addiction or struggling with physical or mental health   problems. The number of people experiencing homelessness in a single night went up 12% in the United States in 2023, in part because COVID programs preventing   evictions and housing losses came to an end. A quarter of those people were unhoused for the first time in their lives. TAPPER: How many people fell into homelessness during COVID? BASS: Before COVID there were probably about 20,000 or 30,000 people. Now it`s 46,000. TAPPER (voice over): Today, this man, Mark, the father of four, is getting out of his tent and into temporary housing nearby. Mark`s new housing is in these former shipping containers used to build interim housing quickly.  (On camera): There was a misunderstanding about homelessness in this country. BASS: Exactly. TAPPER: A lot of people think it`s just people with psychological problems or just people with addiction. BASS: We have about 9,000 children who are homeless in Los Angeles. Some of them are in and out of schools. Some of them attend school. But many are   living in cars and RVs.  TAPPER: The short-term solution, get people out of the tents, off the street, out of the cars, into these containers. But this isn`t a long- term   solution for the problem.  BASS: It takes a while to build housing. Unfortunately, the policy de facto had been, you stay on the street while we build something. I think that is   completely unacceptable. So, what is the solution? Just putting somebody in a house is not enough. There needs to be health care and other social   services support and then they need to go into permanent housing. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia.  What is the name given to the World War II German Airforce campaign that bombed Britain relentlessly for eight straight months? Donner, Blitz, Schrei, or Feuer.  If you said Blitz, you are the bomb. The name Blitz comes from the German term Blitzkrieg, meaning Lightning War, according to the Imperial War   Museum Institute. More than 80 years have passed since England was devastated by German air force explosives, but some of the Detritus can still be found across the   country. And for some folks really close to home. In the seaside city of Plymouth on England`s Southern shore remnants of a World War II era bomb   have been found unexploded in one person`s garden, prompting, a citywide response. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This unexplode World War II bomb was found buried in a residential garden in the English city of Plymouth. The discovery prompted   the city council to declare a major incident. Some 10,000 people were evacuated from the area in what the U.K. government calls one of the   largest evacuation operations since the end of World War II. SALLY HAYDON, PLYMOUTH CITY COUNCIL: If you could leave your properties like you have been advised by the police, that would be brilliant. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Bomb disposal experts transported the 500-kilogram device to the sea where it was eventually detonated. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, Martians in the making. If you have dreams of someday visiting Mars, NASA is accepting applications for a   chance to participate in a simulated mission that could bring you one small step closer to your dream. Check out the 3D printed habitats built in   Houston that will house volunteer Martians who will test out what it might be like to live and work on our neighboring planet. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: For one year, a crew of four people will live and work inside this space. The Mars Dune Alpha at NASA`s Johnson Space Center in   Houston. The 3D printed habitat is designed to resemble the living conditions of a crew of astronauts that will hopefully land on the Martian   surface in the future. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: All right, time to give some thanks to all the linguists out there who submitted words on my @coywire social accounts for #YourWordWednesday.  Today`s winner is the current events class at Cory-Rawson Local Schools in Rawson, Ohio for detritus, a noun meaning debris or the portion of   something left behind after it had been destroyed. Thanks for teaching us a new word today, everybody. For today`s shout out, we want to show some love to the Falcons up at Mrs. Farrell`s class at Minnechaug Regional High School in Wilbraham   Massachusetts. Thanks for my new t-shirt.  And this shout out goes to Milford High School in Milford, Delaware. Rise up.  Keep shining bright, lovely people. I`m Coy Wire. And I`ll see you right back here tomorrow on CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-02-29
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up sunshine and congrats to all of us for having this extra day in our year, 366 days instead of 365. Thanks to leap   year. Today, we get that rare extra day in February. It`s Thursday, the 29th, happy Friday Eve. I`m Coy Wire. Welcome to CNN 10, the best 10   minutes in news. We start today in the Northern part of Texas where the Smokehouse Creek fire is one of the several Texas panhandle wildfires, forcing evacuations   of towns, the loss of power and water shortages to thousands of homes and businesses and the temporary shutdown of a nearby nuclear weapons facility   out of an abundance of caution.  At the time of this recording, the fast-moving blaze had scorched through an area spanning approximately 500,000 acres. That`s about 11 times the   size of Washington D.C. making this the second largest wildfire on record in Texas, burning more land in 48 hours than all of the state`s 2023 fires   combined.  Texas Governor Greg Abbott issued a disaster declaration for 60 counties in the area. He urged people to stay safe and to refrain from any activities   that may cause any sort of spark because the conditions there are ripe for further fires, extremely dry, high temperatures, and winds.  Let`s all send some positive energy and thoughts to Texas. We`re going to continue to monitor this situation and keep you up to date right here on   CNN 10. Pop quiz hot shot. What year was North Korea founded?  1946, 1948, 1950, 1953. If you said 1948, put your hands up. After World War II, the Korean Peninsula was split in two, along the 38th parallel. That border was upheld   after the Korean War is now called the demilitarized zone or DMZ. Let`s head to North Korea now, which has been an esoteric isolated place on this planet for years, especially for tourists. But that is changing now as   North Korea welcomed Russian tourists to their country this week. North Korea and Russia have recently developed friendly political and military   ties. And that is raising concern from U.S. intelligence officials.  Lately, many Russian tourists have found themselves unable to visit popular tourism destinations around the world. But North Korea offered a rare   opportunity for about 100 Russian nationals to visit what is called the hermit kingdom. This group is believed to be North Korea`s first tourist   since the pandemic. Our Will Ripley has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WILL RIPLEY, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): After years of near total isolation, North Korea is rolling out the red carpet for Russian   visitors. This group of 100 believed to be the first post-pandemic tourists. Visiting Kim Jong-un`s hermetically sealed nation amid its   deepening ties with Russia. They flew from Vladivostok to Pyongyang on a vintage Russian plane operated by Air Koryo, North Korea`s only airline. I`ve flown it more than a dozen   times when westerners were still allowed in.  This Russian tour and perhaps more to come is about more than sightseeing, it is about the bigger picture of international relations. Russia and North   Korea strengthening ties, icing out the west. Ilya Voskresensky is a travel blogger from St. Petersburg, a tough job these days. Many European nations ban Russian tourists, the result of   Putin`s war on Ukraine. ILYA VOSKRESENSKY, TRAVEL VLOGGER (through translator): I signed up for this tour the moment I heard about it. It is like stepping back in time,   reminiscent of the stories my grandparents told me about life in the Soviet Union. The empty streets, the lack of advertisement, its surreal. RIPLEY: Elena Bychkova is a marketing professional from Moscow. ELENA BYCHKOVA, MARKETING PROFESSIONAL FROM MOSCOW (through translator): The meticulous preparations for our visit felt like being in a theater   production, but amidst the choreographed scenes, I couldn`t shake the feeling that there another side to North Korea, one that remains hidden. RIPLEY: Beneath that carefully controlled facade, encounters with North Korean children revealing curiosity, genuine interest in the outside world. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: All right, so 2024 is a leap year. We get 366 days on the calendar instead of 365. But why, what is a leap year? First off, there are 365 days   in a calendar year because that`s how long it takes for the earth to travel around the sun, right?  Well, it`s actually about 365 and a quarter of a day, which means our calendar gets out of sync by a quarter of a day, each year. So in the year   45, B.C. Julius Caesar declared that every four years a day needed to be added to the calendar to balance things out. Thus, the Julian calendar was   born. But one caveat, it was later determined that it actually takes slightly less than 365 in a quarter days for earth to rotate around the   sun, 44 minutes less to be exact. And over time, those 44 minutes add up.  So in the 16th Century, Pope Gregory XIII tweak the system again so that leap ears would occur in any year that`s divisible by four, but only in   centuries that are evenly divided by 400, confusing, I know. That means that in the 1600s, the 2000s, those have leap years, but not the 1700s,   1800s, and 1900s. Is that math, mathing? Yeah.  OK. Pope Gregory also made February 29th, the official date to add during a leap year. And he dubbed this new system, the Gregorian calendar, and   that`s the one used in the majority of the world today.  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 has us flipping out one of the HBCUs historically black college and universities has become the first to have a   gymnastics team. Legends like Simone Biles and Gabby Douglas have inspired a myriad of youngsters to pursue a passion they may not have had otherwise.   And now Fisk University in Nashville, Tennessee is helping to create a brighter tomorrow. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) NAIMAH MUHAMMAD, GYMNAST, FISK UNIVERSITY: Gymnastics is considered a white sport. If you look at the sport as a whole, there`s probably about 10%   maybe of athletes who would classify themselves as a black athlete in the sport of gymnastics. The teams I was always on were very supportive, even though, of course, usually I was always like one of two black girls on those teams. I was the   only black girl on many of the teams.  Gabby was like my idol that watched her win the Olympics. And that inspired me to take gymnastics a little bit more seriously. Getting ready for   competitions, you know, everyone will do their hair together and stuff, and my hair is way different texture from anyone else`s.  I absolutely hated my hair. You`re constantly surrounded by girls that are just doing slick backs and, like, can put their hair up in a bun easily and   stuff. And it`s like, OK, well, my hair doesn`t do that. CORRINNE TARVER, HEAD GYMNASTICS COACH, FISK UNIVERSITY: We`re gone cheer her on. And then she`s going to do a routine.  MUHAMMAD: The first thing I noticed about Coach Dee was that she had locs. This was the first time I`ve ever had a black woman coach in my life. And   she had hair that looked like me. And now I`m on a team with girls with hair like mine, and they can help me with my hair. And I don`t feel like I   have to change anything about myself to fit in.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Let`s go, right here. That hand. Go Zana. TARVER: Sometimes they had to choose between an HBCU or gymnastics. And so now they don`t have to choose. It is the first gymnastics program at an   HBCU or historically black college or university in history.  And Naimah is remembered as the first HBCU gymnast to ever compete in history. MUHAMMAD: And that was like crazy, high emotions. I was crying. I was like, oh my God, this is amazing. Every meet after that, we would be signing   autographs or meeting young girls after the competitions, because this was huge for them.  I get so many DMs and so many messages. And so many -- I get tagged in so many posts from the low black gymnasts all over. You`re one of her favorite   gymnasts to watch. Do you think maybe you could send her some motivation. You were truly an inspiration.  This girl Kamaya. She did her black history month project on me. It was like, she wrote like a whole thing. And that`s also funny because I -- I --   I did -- I did a black history remote project on Gabby Douglas. So it is a full circle thing. I remember making -- like, doing a project like this.   Now someone`s doing one on me.  TARVER: We still have a long way to go. Now, as a young gymnast, you`re going to see people who look like you year after year after year. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Bulldogs on me. Bulldogs on three. 1, 2, 3. ALL: Bulldogs. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Rise up higher and higher, we go. One quick random thought for you this Thursday. How is it that our brains remember that we forgot something,   but we can`t remember what that thing was. One thing I will not forget, shout out time. This shout out goes to Godley High School in Godley, Texas,   go Wildcats. And this shout out goes to the Cougars at South Pontotoc Middle School in Pontotoc, Mississippi. Keep it 100, y`all especially in   that grade book.  See you tomorrow superstars. It`ll be Friyay. We`ll finish this week strong. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-03-01
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up lovely people. We made it to the best day of the week, Friyay. We are here in the Chi, Chicago, check out our   @CNN10 YouTube shorts for a fun little nugget on one of the best tourist destinations here in Chicago. And no, it wasn`t the pizza, although that   was pretty darn good too.  All right, we are motoring along this week, this year. It`s already March 1st. I swear, it feels like it was February just yesterday. Let`s keep   right on marching along. And now we`ve been talking a lot about the election primary picture on the Republican side, right, in recent weeks.   But today we shift our focus to the Democratic primary specifically in Michigan.  President Joe Biden won that primary earlier this week with 81% of the vote. And while that is a massive victory, the vote revealed some red flag   with a warning from progressives, young voters and Arab of American Democrats as they issued a sort of protest vote, if you will, in the form   of an uncommitted vote.  The Michigan primary gives voters the option to select "uncommitted," meaning they`re exercising a vote for their political party, but they`re   not yet willing to commit to any of the candidates listed on the ballot.  A coalition movement, any Michigan asked Democrats who were unhappy with Biden`s handling of Israel`s war in Gaza to select uncommitted, about 13%   of primary voters chose this option. This result highlights how the war in Gaza is a divisive issue among Democrats, and that could hurt President   Biden in the general election.  He has publicly backed Israel`s right to defend itself, but has also pushed for a ceasefire to bring relief in Gaza. The result in the Michigan primary   reveals the battle Biden`s team faces as he works to build a broad political coalition, they could be strong enough to possibly beat the   likely Republican nominee former president Donald Trump in November. We are just about eight months away now from the presidential election. Pop quiz, hot shot. What was the dominant religion in Iran before Islam? Hinduism, Buddhism, Zoroastrianism, or Taoism. Prior to the Muslim Arab invasion of Persia, which is modern day Iran, the religion of Zoroastrianism had been the primary religion of the Iranian   people. OK, from the us elections, we now turn to another important election that`s actually taking place today in Iran. About 15,000 candidates are vying for   the 290 state parliamentary elections. Also 144 are competing for the 88 seats of the assembly of experts, which has the power to appoint the   country`s Supreme leader, Iran`s highest political authority.  Currently Iranians are facing an ailing economy as well as growing political distrust. Our Fred Pleitgen reports from Tehran as Iranian voters   prepare to cast their votes.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voiceover):  Iranian conservatives with a show of force ahead of what many say will be a   key election on Friday, supporting their leadership`s tough stance against both the U.S. and Israel. His sons, Hassan and Hussein dressed up in   military fatigues voter Mohammed Kalantari says he wants to show the U.S. Iran`s strength. They know that Iran is a powder keg, he says. It only takes a spark to blow up the entire region. Iranian youth, me and the children are wearing these   clothes to say that we are the soldiers of this country. And this man says through this election we will prove that we can stand against the U.S. not only economically but militarily. They are sanctioning   us but this will be solved soon and then we will be a country sanctioning them.  Tension between the U.S. and Iran has reached a boiling point as Washington accuses Tehran of supporting Houthis in Yemen firing missiles at cargo   ships, as well as pro-Iranian militias in Iraq and Syria targeting U.S. bases there including the January 28 attack, killing three U.S. service   members and wounding dozens. Iran denies any involvement, but has ripped into the U.S. for Washington support of Israel and its campaign against Hamas in Gaza. At the   conservative event, disdain for Israel on full display. Flags with a Star of David on the floor for people to step on. PLEITGEN (on camera):  It certainly seems pretty clear how most of the people at this rally are going to vote in the upcoming parliamentary   elections. But this event is really about something else. It`s about getting out the vote. In fact, the supreme leader of this country has urged   people to head to the ballot boxes to make sure there will be a high turnout. PLEITGEN (voiceover):  It`s the first election since massive protests erupted in Iran in late 2022 following the death of Mahsa Amini after she   was detained for violating job laws.  On the streets of Tehran, get out the vote posters nearly everywhere. But with many moderate candidates barred from running, inflation high and the   economy reeling from tough U.S.-led sanctions. Some say they feel unenthusiastic when we ask if they will vote. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  No. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  No, no. PLEITGEN (voiceover):  The country belongs to the people, this man says. There should be participation in the elections but it should be freer with   the presence of all groups and minorities. It`s unclear if Iran`s leaders can persuade more people to vote in an election deemed pivotal for the country`s future. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, we do have to turn now to the Smokehouse Creek Wildfire that`s devastating parts of Northern Texas. The fire has already burned   more than one Northern acres making it the largest fire in the state`s history. And as of this recording, crews have only been able to contain 3%   of it. There are four additional wildfires scorching across the Texas Panhandle damaging scores of homes, farm lands, and public utilities like   power and water. Officials are battling for solutions to stop this historic fire. But they`re also tasked with figuring out how exactly this fire may have   started, why it spread so quickly and why more wildfires seem to be spreading larger and faster than ever.  To that last question, CNN recently spoke to a professor of Fire Sciences at the Imperial College of London to explain how climate change might be   adding fuel to these wildfires. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) GUILLERMO REIN, PROFESSOR OF FIRE SCIENCES, IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON:  In order to have a wildfire, you need the three sides of a triangle, the   oxygen, the fuel, and the ignition source. Climate change has a very strong effect in one of the sides of this triangle, the fuel. Heat waves are drying vegetation. We know that drier   vegetation is much more flammable. Once it ignites, the flames are taller. And when it moves, it moves faster.  Broadly speaking, there are two types of fires -- flaming wildfires. These are the ones that spread faster and are more concerning in terms of damage   to people, and to property and to ecosystem. And the other one is smoldering. They propagate slowly, but they produce very toxic smoke.  What is happening in Europe, what is happening in Australia and United States, there are so many changes that is very difficult to quantify. What   is the climate? What is not.  The top of the boreal and the Arctic, that`s Alaska, that`s Canada, that`s Siberia, we are seeing an increase of bad wildfires. That is for us, a   clear sign of climate change. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  All right, today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a North Carolina resident was put on pause and is very lucky. They didn`t unexpectedly meet   a fur neighbor face to face. A huge black bear crawling out of a tiny hole in their Asheville house, which had -- had been calling home during the   hibernating season.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEREMY ROTH, CNN DIGITAL VIDEO PRODUCER:  Wakey-wakey, Mr. Bear. Video posted by the North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission shows the   squatter sneaking, snout-first, from a vent outside a home in Asheville.  Apparently, the bulky bear turned that house into a winter home. Now, springing up as spring arrives, squeezing its way into the open air.   Clearly a tight fit for the trespasser, as it`s taking some extra effort to wiggle free.  The commission says the video is a reminder to stay vigilant. As warmer weather arrives, be wary of bear dens and do your best to not disturb their   slumber. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  From hibernating to hibernating, but before we go, the best part of the show, you. This shout out goes to East Sac County Community School   District in Sac County, Iowa. We see you, Raiders.  And this shout out goes to Karns Middle School in Knoxville, Tennessee. You better be relieve at Beavers, rise up. Go on out and making an awesome   Friday, Friyay. Remember, you are more powerful than you though.  I`m Coy Wire. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2024-03-04
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up, lovely people. Hope you had an awesome weekend. Let`s start this week strong with some motivation Monday. Remember   complacency is the constant enemy. So let`s learn one thing or do something that`ll make us a little better today than we were yesterday.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we start with doctors protesting. Thousands of doctors taking to the streets in Seoul, South Korea,   expressing support for the many more thousands of doctors who`ve been on strike for nearly two weeks.  This all because of the government`s plan to increase medical school admissions. The plan includes increasing the country`s medical school   enrollment by 2000, starting in the 2025 academic year. That would bring the total to about 5,000 per year. The government says this plan is to help   meet the challenging healthcare demands as South Korea faces one of the lowest doctor to population ratios for a developed country.  But doctors disagree with the government`s method and believes their medical school system cannot handle a vast increase of educating and   training new medical students. Also, they`re concerned that the proposed plan does not include staffing in specific fields that have already been   seeing a shortage such as pediatrics and the emergency departments.  Doctors are also worried that the addition of new doctors would lead to an increase of public medical expenses. But these protests have not really won   public support. A recent survey showed a majority of the South Koreans are siding with the government`s plan, with some critics saying, doctors are   just worried about receiving a lower income now with more competition in the field.  With a strike ongoing, the country`s health ministry says the government has already allowed military doctors and nurses to perform some medical   procedures normally performed by these striking doctors.  All right, let`s turn now to weather as we first head to the Sierra Nevada mountain region, where blizzard conditions continue to slam the area.   Dangerous, fierce winds of more than 75 miles per hour, as well as heavy snowfall threatened to dump up to 10 feet of snow in the mountains has   forced officials to close down roads and impact travel.  Many resorts on the California-Nevada border are also shut down and about 6 million people in that region are in a winter weather alert. And let`s head   to another region, the Texas Panhandle continuing to be ravaged by extremely hot and dry conditions as the biggest inferno in Texas history   rages on. The Smokehouse Creek Fire has been burning for nearly a week now and has destroyed more than 1 million acres in the State of Texas alone. It`s a   scary and devastating reality. Many Texans are dealing with. Let`s turn to our Camila Bernal for more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: It`s been windy. It is hot, a lot hotter than it`s been over the last couple of days. And it`s dry,   conditions that are making it extremely difficult for firefighters in this area that are still battling the largest wildfire in Texas history.   Containment is still very low, so there`s a lot of work to be done.  And in the meantime, you have that grieving process beginning for a lot of the families that have lost everything, the cleanup process. Like, you`re   seeing here behind me at the Johnson house, and it`s been difficult to do that cleanup because the winds have been so high. But nonetheless, you`re   seeing them right now, as they`re trying to sift through that debris, trying to look for any jewelry, anything they can find of what was left of   their home, the home that they`ve built for 20 years.  I want you to listen to what Ronnie Johnson told me when he first got here to his home after the fire. RONNIE JOHNSON, LOST HOME IN FIRE: We came back about 10:30 that night. We kind of snuck through some ranches -- to drive up here and see it gone.   This was -- it was pretty tough.  BERNAL: And you can hear the emotion. It`s been so difficult for members of this community. It`s also had a huge impact on the cattle industry here   because 85% of the state`s cattle is raised here in the Panhandle. And so a lot of these ranchers are also having to start from zero and have shared   their struggle both emotionally and financially. They know it`s going to take a long time to get back to where they were before those fires.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz, hot shot. While not constant, the speed of sound is typically how fast? 10,000 miles per hour, 760, 86, or 186,000 miles per second.  Air temperature affects the precise mark, but the sound barrier can typically be broken at around 760 miles per hour. Well done.  All right. You might remember, we were talking about the speed of sound about a month ago when we mentioned the development of a new supersonic   plane, we`re taking a closer look today at what aerospace and defense company, Lockheed Martin has built and debuted for NASA. The experimental   plane is called the X-59, and it`s a quiet supersonic aircraft. NASA is looking to possibly revolutionize the air travel industry. And by that, I   mean go really fast, so fast that it could travel faster than the speed of sound. Take a look at this piece, profiling the X-59. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is the X-59 quest, a new plane built by Lockheed Martin for NASAs. NASA is hoping it will be able to solve a problem that   has stopped commercial airplanes from flying really, really fast. That`s because --  CATHY BAHM, PROJECT MANAGER, LOW BOOM FLIGHT DEMONSTRATOR, NASA: When an aircraft goes supersonic faster than the speed of sound, it creates shock   waves. MICHAEL BUONANNO, X-59 AIR VEHICLE LEAD, LOCKHEED MARTIN SKUNK WORKS: When I heard a sonic boom for the first time, I finally understood why it was   such a big deal. If something`s traveling supersonically, you can see it coming, but you won`t hear it at all until it`s already passed you. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: As you can imagine, sonic booms can be disruptive to life on the ground. So disruptive that in 1973, the United States   government, along with much of the world banned all civilian aircraft from supersonic flight over land. BAHM: For the U.S., it`s a speed limit. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The only civilian jet to ferry passengers faster than the speed of sound was the Concorde. DAVID RICHARDSON, X-59 PROGRAM MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR, LOCKHEED MARTIN: But it was only able to fly over the ocean supersonic. So you could do London to   New York, but you had to slow down before you got to New York and be subsonic. So the routes were very limited. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The Concorde was a celebrated technical achievement and an exclusive luxury for its passengers. Limited roots and heavy fuel   consumption meant that operating the Concorde was not good business. However, it stopped flying in 2003.  But if supersonic airplanes could fly over land, they can fly anywhere. And the business proposition changes. NASA and Lockheed Martin are hoping this   crazy looking airplane is a step in that direction. RICHARDSON: It`s designed to go supersonic without making the loud sonic boom, that -- that we`ve been accustomed to hearing for decades now. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: To understand how this might work, it`s important to understand how a sonic boom happens. BAHM: Just like a boat, when the boat is moving, you get the weight coming off of -- of it. And it is with it the entire time it`s traveling.   Similarly for supersonic aircraft, the shock waves come off the aircraft and travel to the ground the entire time it`s flying supersonic. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So when engineers designed the X-59, they used smooth and long aerodynamic lines to limit those shock waves from reaching the   ground. BAHM: The engine is above the wing and that`s so that the shock wave from the engine isn`t able to go down to the ground. It just goes up. BUONANNO: It is still audible, like a quiet thump. And most people, if they hear it, won`t even notice it. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: NASA is aiming for a first test flight of the X-59 in the spring of 2024. Poetically, over the same patch of California desert,   where Chuck Yeager first broke the sound barrier in the X-1. RICHARDSON: NASA can take that data and then be able to present that to the regulatory authorities, to actually repeal the overland supersonic   limitations, or was that we have today. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: A change in regulation could lead to a surge of investment in the next generation of commercial supersonic aircraft, making   travel faster than the speed of sound, more accessible to everyone. And that could send massive shockwaves through the air travel industry,   shockwaves that NASA and Lockheed Martin hope will sound more like a thump. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Mad props for today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, an OBI wan-of-a- kind. C-3PO`s head, the iconic movie prop from the 1983 Star Wars movie, "Return to the Jedi," up for auction by actor Anthony Daniels who played   the jittery droid. At last check, the bid was $350,000, but it`s expected to sell for up to 1 million bucks. So if you have some extra money in your   penny jar, jar, you can snag it.  Who`d have thought that you can buy Star Wars good guys gear at auction? I hear the villain stuff is sold at the Darth Maul. But wookie here, I also   heard that Jedi Masters drive cars made by Toyota. May the fourth be with you today, March 4th, that is. Before I go, we`re sending a love and a big shout out to Pleasantville Middle School in Pleasantville, New York today. Thank you for subscribing   and commenting on our "CNN 10" YouTube channel.  And this shout out goes to Gaudet Middle School in Middletown, Rhode Island, rise up. Thank you for spending part of your day with us. We`re   going to be right back here tomorrow. I`m Coy Wire. And we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-03-05
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up sunshine. It`s time to shine here on this March 5th. I hope it`s a super Tuesday so far because in the political   world, it is a literal Super Tuesday. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, and this is the day where more states vote than any other date. Both   Republicans and Democrats casting their votes in at least 15 states in one territory to choose their party`s Presidential nominee.  The term Super Tuesday is only several decades old and originally referred to those states voting at the end of the primary season in June. But in the   1980s, Democrats in Southern states combined their voting days to front load the primary process. They thought this timing would give an edge to   more moderate candidates in their party, though, that goal hasn`t always worked for either party. This Super Tuesday could be Nikki Haley`s best   chance to challenge former president Donald Trump for the Republican presidential nomination. Over the weekend, Haley won the GOP primary in Washington, D.C. Her first such win this election season. Trump has won every other primary or caucus   holding a 244 to 43 lead in the delegate count over Haley. At least 1,215 delegates are needed to win the party`s nomination.  Now, on Monday, former president Trump had a meaningful victory at the Supreme court. The justices unanimously agreeing that he should remain on   the ballot in Colorado. The state previously declared that he was ineligible to run for president because of his alleged role in the January   6th attack on the U.S. capital building. But the Supreme court put him back on Colorado`s ballot.  Now, for Democrats while Super Tuesday is super important, it may be less of a defining moment than President Biden`s State of the Union Address,   which will be held on Thursday. A series of recent polls show voters concerns with the current U.S. president, the 81-year-old commander in   chief faces distrust in his ability to serve a second term as well as frustration with how his administration has handled global and domestic   crises. So the State of the Union Speech will give Biden an opportunity to address these concerns and reassure voters.  Now, one of the major concerns of voters is President Biden`s policies towards Israel and Gaza, and that`s where we`re going next. It has been   nearly five months since Hamas attacked Israel. And since then Israel has waged war on the Palestinian territory.  Currently, U.S. officials are negotiating a six-week ceasefire proposal that would allow for the release of hostages held by Hamas and a surge of   humanitarian aid into Gaza. Progress towards a deal being reached has been slow as both sides claim, there are sticking points, holding them back.  In the meantime, the U.S. began airdropping emergency humanitarian assistance this weekend with thousands of meals for the war-torn Gaza   residents. Here`s CNN`s Paula Hancocks with details on this emergency aid package. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: We are expecting more aid airdrops over Gaza in the coming days. This, after what we saw Saturday,   the U.S. and the Royal Jordanian Air Force dropping aid along the coastlines of Gaza. Now, the U.S. said that they dropped 66 bundles, that was 38,000 meals. No water or medical supplies in this airdrop. But they say that they did   consider it successful as they were monitoring the area afterwards and said that they saw civilians come out to take the aid and then distribute it. Now, Jordan and the UAE have already been doing airdrops over recent days, and we know that other countries are considering whether this is the way to   try and get desperately needed aid into the some of the hardest hit areas off Gaza. But we are hearing from some humanitarian aid groups that this is not the ideal way to try and get the aid in. They say -- in fact, one called it a   band aid measure to try and help those desperately in need. Of course, once the aid lands in Gaza, there is no organized distribution. There is no   control over who gets this aid. And there`s no guarantee that it will get to those who desperately need it. What we`re hearing from humanitarian aid groups and the U.N. agencies, and we`ve been hearing this for months, is that Israel needs to lift   restrictions on what gets into Gaza, restrictions at the crossings, and restrictions of transporting the aid around the Gaza Strip once it is   inside. Now, one thing that all humanitarian aid groups agree is that a ceasefire would allow them to get humanitarian aid into where it is needed.  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Ten second trivia.  What was the CDC or Centers for Disease Control and Preventions primary mission when it first began in 1946?  Combat malaria, teach public health workers, develop good hygiene routines, or study cancer.  If you said, combat malaria, boomshakalaka. The CDC`s first name was actually the Communicable Disease Center and it established its   headquarters in Atlanta because malaria was most prevalent in the south.  Our next story is about new COVID-19 guidelines from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. We ask CNN`s Chief Medical Correspondent,   Dr. Sanjay Gupta, to explain these changes, why they were made and about the best ways for people to protect themselves from the virus. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, these are some of the biggest changes in guidance that we`ve heard from the CDC in quite some   time now. And there`s people who say, look, this is a long time coming. Other people who understandably are very concerned about this especially   people who are more vulnerable, have some sort of pre-existing condition for example. Let`s take a look here. Previous guidance on the left, current now guidance on the right. The top line is the most significant. In the past, they said   days zero to five you should stay in isolation, now they`re saying stay home or away from others if you have symptoms. The reason that`s concerning   for a lot of people is because we know you can still be contagious even if you don`t have symptoms. Day six and onward they say especially if you`re going to be around vulnerable people, you should wear a mask. You should think about   ventilation. You should try and keep your distance. Now, part of the reason they`re making these changes, the CDC, few reasons. They say that 97% of the country now has some degree of immunity which is probably true between vaccination and people who`ve been previously   infected. But keep in mind, a lot of people get infected over and over again, so if they have the immunity, it doesn`t seem to last very long.   Also, if you look at hospitalizations and deaths, they`ve gone down consider considerably, 60% lower for hospitalizations. Deaths have gone   down 83%. Let me show you this graphic as well. They implemented this in Oregon in the past back in May of 2023. And you can see what sort of happened. Cases   did surge again. And then you had these sort of these absent and flows of cases, but the CDC says Oregon really behaved not much differently than the   national average. So, even with the loosening of the guidelines, it didn`t seem to increase the risk they say at least to people there in Oregon. Now, one thing to keep in mind is that some people say this is sort of flu- ifying COVID. We`re treating this like flu. But I want to show you this graph that we pulled, that makes this case that COVID is still a lot more   concerning than flu. Orange line is COVID. Go back to 2019, 2020, you see the difference between COVID. Flu in blue and then R is -- red is RSV. Even   now, most currently you see how much more of an impact COVID has overall on hospitalizations. In the last season, flu killed -- had about 21,000 people who died. With COVID, it was closer to 245,000. COVID is not flu. People can still spread   this even when they`re asymptomatic as I mentioned. They are more contagious. They are contagious for longer with COVID. They can experience   symptoms for a long time after infection, long COVID, and it can cause some very serious illness in people. So, I think that`s the concern that even   though it`s being treated, more and more COVID been treated more and more like flu, it is not flu. As we get more information about these guidelines, we`ll certainly bring them to you. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, the curious case of the "corpse flower," the Titan arum, A.K.A. corpse flower native to the rainforest of   Sumatra, Indonesia, blooming at the California Academy of Sciences in San Francisco last week. A rare treat as these plants have a blooming cycle   that can take years sometimes even longer than a decade. This one lurked underground gathering nutrients for five years, and then like a zombie   rising from the dead, shot up to nearly seven feet tall. These beautiful behemoth-like blooms only last for about 24 to 48 hours. But why the term   corpse flower? Well, it smells like rotting flesh apparently. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) TIM WONG, BIOLOGIST: People say garlic, sweaty feet, you know, rotten flesh. Yeah, I actually kind of thought it smelled a little bit like a   porta-potty, like a collection of sense. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Ooh, let this be a reminder that just because something or someone is beautiful, looks aren`t everything. So be kind y`all. And remember to   shower.  Also, remember tomorrow`s #YourWordWednesday, where you can help us write the show. Follow me @coywire on Instagram, Snapchat, and TikTok, and put   your unique vocabulary word and definition in the comment section on a most recent post and we`ll choose a winner to work into tomorrow show, with a   shoutout to you and your school.  Speaking of shoutout, today we are showing some love to Canon City High School in Canon City, Colorado. How about them, Tigers?  And this shoutout goes to South Terrebonne High School in Bourg, Louisiana. See you later, Gators. Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our "CNN   10" YouTube channel. I`m Coy Wire. We are CNN 10. And you are awesome. END 

Date: 2024-03-06
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What up sunshine, I`m Coy Wire. It`s March 6th and it`s #YourWordWednesday. So listen up to see if your word was selected to   broaden our vocabulary and make it into today`s show.  We start with news about pollution on and around our planet. According to a new report by the international energy agency, global pollution from energy   sources like coal, oil, and natural gas hit record high levels last year with emissions rising more than 1% across the world.  One factor contributing to this increase was extreme droughts that restricted hydro power production in some countries, which in turn   increased reliance on fossil fuels. Another component was a surge energy demand in China as the second-largest country in the world by population   ended its COVID-19 lockdowns last year. But it`s not all bad news, according to the report, U.S. expansion of clean energy sources cut   emissions in the country by a little more than 4%, while European Union`s energy emissions fell by almost 9%. And China made massive gains in its solar and wind power use as well. But scientists say pollution levels need to be cut further to help hold   companies accountable for any egregious pollution levels and to quantify their contribution to global warming, a U.S.-based nonprofit, environmental   defense fund launched a new satellite that locates and measures methane leaks. CNN`s Bill Weir has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 3, 2, 1 ignition and liftoff, Falcon 9. BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT: Paid for by the likes of billionaire Jeff Bezos and other donors. The nonprofit Environmental   Defense Fund just launched a new kind of eye in the Sky. MethaneSAT is designed to circle the Earth every 95 minutes or so. And with cutting-edge detail, spot plumes and leaks of planet cooking pollution long   associated with the production of natural gas. If carbon dioxide is a blanket of average thickness over heating the earth for centuries, methane   is like a blanket seven feet thick with over 80 times the heat-trapping power of CO2 for about two decades after its release.  Sometimes it leaks from old equipment or orphaned wells. And sometimes, when there`s no one to buy it, companies just burn it in a practice known   as flaring. KELSEY ROBINSON, ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE FUND PERMIANMAP: What we found here in the Permian Basin is that operators are wasting enough gas to heat about   2 million homes a year. WEIR: In 2021, EDF took us up over the oil and gas fields of Texas to sniff out methane leakers with a specially-equipped airplane. So this is carbon dioxide down here and this is methane. But now they can fly over every oil and gas basin in the world where 80% of global supplies   are fracked and pumped. STEVEN HAMBURG, ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE FUND: We can basically create a movie of what`s going on with respect to methane emissions. Before we could just   take snapshots when we had a plane in the air and we can get permission to fly. This is a whole new game. It really creates an enormous leap forward   in our ability to really understand greenhouse gas emissions. WEIR: While other satellites can spot methane, what they find is often kept private but EDF says that in about 18 months their data will be open and   free on Google Earth Engine for anyone to see. HAMBURG: You just have a real clarity now, a clarity we`ve never had before. And I think people realize you don`t have to accept what somebody   says, whether that`s a government or a company, you can actually directly look at it, see what it is. And that is completely different than anything   we`ve ever had for greenhouse gases. What I referred to as we`re going to have radical transparency. WEIR: And what has been the response from the oil and gas companies that you`re doing this? HAMBURG: Well, I think many of the companies see this as a real opportunity because they really do believe and I suspect that they`re doing a good job,   but many of them aren`t. It gives countries and companies the tools to select who they buy gas from and where that gas comes from. For the first time they`ll have the ability   to make really informed decisions. And those informed decisions will have enormous positive impact on the climate. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz, hot shot. Which "Sesame Street" character was not in the original cast of the show`s first episode?  Cookie Monster, Kermit the Frog, Grover, or Big Bird. If you said Grover, rise up. This character appeared later in season one as a dark green furry monster, but he was redesigned with blue fur and given   his current voice and personality in the second season.  Our next story, we`re going to focus on the economy as the White House has announced a set of measures this week to fight what they are calling   "corporate rip offs." These efforts are aimed at cracking down on unfair and illegal pricing across numerous industries.  Federal regulators are also announcing rules to eliminate excessive credit card late fees and junk fees. These are rules that the financial industry   opposes, arguing they are prioritizing short-term political gain over long- term benefits of consumers.  But the economy is on many people`s minds and these latest efforts come as more and more people are frustrated by shrinkflation, which is when   companies decrease the quantity of a product you get, say, the number of cookies you`d usually get in a box, while still keeping prices the same.   It`s become so prevalent that even Sesame Street`s Cookie Monster posted about it, complaining about how egregious the business practice has become.  So why is shrinkflation resonating in public discourse? CNN`s Vanessa Yurkevich and Sara Sidner serve up some potential answers to Cookie   Monster`s frustrations. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS & POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: Do not mess with Cookie Monster`s cookies, but a lot of Americans agree. He`s talking about   something called shrinkflation. And this is what we see when corporations shrink the product size to avoid raising prices further. Research has   indicated that consumers are actually more OK with smaller products than higher prices.  But essentially if you look at cookie prices over the past two years or so for about a pound of cookies, you see that the price started about $3.70   for a pound. It`s all the way up to $5.02 a pound. And in the last year, according to a study by Senator Bob Casey in just the last year, we`ve seen   cookie products shrink by 6%.  And so you have everyone now jumping on this conversation with Cookie Monster, who said, "me hate shrinkflation. Me cookies are getting smaller."   You have President Biden who actually -- the White House retweeting about this chiming in saying C is for consumers getting ripped off. You have   everyone from Sherrod Brown from Ohio saying that his constituents are absolutely sick of shrinkflation. And you have Elizabeth Warren and you   have Bob Casey saying that they actually have a bill for this. They want the FTC to crack down on corporations that are shrinking their products   while keeping prices the same, if not higher surprising fact, that paper goods has actually seen the biggest shrink inflation in the last few years.  And you also have the worry about something called greedflation. This is essentially when corporations, they see prices softening on some of their   products.  SARA SIDNER, CNN SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: Yeah.  YURKEVICH: But still keep the product smaller. And that is what we do not want to see. We want to see corporations keeping up with changing prices.   That`s probably a tweet best left for Oscar The Grouch, instead of Cookie Monster. SIDNER: I was wondering when he was going to weigh in.  YURKEVICH: He might weigh in soon. But you clearly have, even though he`s a Sesame Street character, Cookie Monster, really tapping into something that   many Americans are seeing and feeling right now. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: For today`s story getting a 10 outs 10, a new take on an age-old question. Why did the chicken cross the road? This time, it`s a goat.   Actually, a lot of them. Our Jeremy Roth shows us the gallivanting barn animals that went on an egregious journey. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEREMY ROTH, CNN REPORTER: Here`s some crazy caught on cam video captured in Texas after a herd of goats got loose and then got moving.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Go, goats. Go.  ROTH: You know, I feel like this story deserves the old pun-o-meter, don`t you. I know what you`re thinking. You`ve "goat" to be kidding me.  OK, here we go. After the herd, which was hired to clear weeds, went on the lamb, Arlington Police responded and weren`t sheepish. Instead taking the   bull by the horns and rounding up the roving silly billies without further incidents. They didn`t even have to use their battering ram. You "herd" it   here first. 5, 6, 7 -- 7 puns. Not bad. That counts, too, by the way.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: You`re a bad man, Jeremy Roth. That was absolutely "punderful."  Hey Mrs. Taylor`s class at Ascend Leadership Academy in Sanford, North Carolina, you are today`s #YourWordWednesday winner for egregious, an   adjective, meaning outstandingly bad, shocking, or flagrant.  Our Kat Jennings loves this word so much. He put it into this show three times today. Well done.  All right, we are showing some love today, Keen Middle School in Keen New Hampshire. Shout out to the Cardinals, go on and dust your feathers off.   You`re looking so fresh and so keen, keen. See you tomorrow lovely people. I`m Coy Wire. And we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-03-07
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, sunshine? Welcome to CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news.  Happy Friday Eve. It`s Thursday, March 7th.  Let`s make it a random thought Thursday, shall we? Did you know that the name for a group of squids is shoal, but shouldn`t the collective now for   squid be squad? Much better.  I love my squad, my CNN 10 family. Hope you`re having a wonderful day.  We start by heading to one of the most contested regions in the world, the South China Sea. This area of the Pacific Ocean is home to Asia`s main   shipping lane with more than $3 trillion in trade passing through every year. That`s according to the Center for Strategic and International   Studies. For decades. China has expressed a claim of authority over a bulk of the sea, but neighboring countries have continually disputed this claim. The   Philippines even brought its case to an international tribunal, which in 2016 ruled that China had no legal basis to its claim. China refuses to   accept this ruling.  So why is this important to the rest of the world?  Well, Philippines is a mutual defense ally of the United States, for example. So ongoing tensions in the South China Sea raised concerns about a   potential global conflict arising from these disputed waters.  CNN recently embedded with the Philippine Coast Guard and witnessed a confrontation with Chinese ships here.  CNN`s Ivan Watson with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  It is just after sunrise. And as you may see, and as you may see there is a large   Chinese coast guard ship directly in front of this Philippines coast guard vessel. And we`ve been watching this over the course of the last hour.   These are supposed to be international waterways with free passage. I`m aboard this Philippines coast guard ship that was part of a convoy of four vessels that were headed towards a place called the Second Thomas   Shoal and before dawn all of a sudden, these Philippine ships were swarmed by much larger and many more Chinese ships they`re more off to our port   bow. These are not marked like the Chinese coast guard ships, but they`re clearly operating with them and operating in very close proximity to this   Philippines coast guard ship. In fact, I`ve seen them in the past cutting this off. And what they`ve succeeded in doing, not only pretty much stopping our ship in its tracks, but it has separated this ship from the other boats in the   Philippines convoy, which included two small resupply vessels that were trying to get to the Second Thomas Shoal. Now part of what is at play here is a territorial dispute. That shoal the Philippines claims is part of its economic exclusion zone. China, though,   it is much further geographically from this area claims, it for itself and clearly tries to stop Philippine ships from getting to it.  We`re completely encircled by a fleet of Chinese ships, at least 14 that I`ve counted. And moments ago, the Chinese coast guard ships were blasting   a Philippines resupply vessel with water cannons. It is clearly by swarming this ship, a show of force, a show of intimidation, and it is physically   stopping vessels from another country from being able to move forward through this international waterway. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Pop quiz hot shot. Which country became the second independent nation in the Americas after the United States? Mexico, Haiti, Canada, or Puerto Rico? If you said Haiti, you are correct. Between 1791 and 1804, freed and enslaved Africans waged the Haitian Revolution, resulting in an independent   country free from French rule. Our next story takes us to Haiti. The United Nations has tracked waves of crime and unrest across the country ever since the assassination of its   former President Jovenel Moise back in 2021. Ever since, societal conditions in the Caribbean country have deteriorated, with anti-government   protests increasing and many Haitians calling for a general election to install new leadership. But Prime Minister Ariel Henry, who came to power after a power-sharing agreement was brokered in 2022 says he can`t step down until the country is   secure enough to hold an election. Meanwhile, gangs control nearly 80 percent of Port-au-Prince, Haiti`s capital, and are fighting for more   control according to the U.N.  A recent surge of coordinated attacks featured armed groups burning down police stations and freeing prisoners while the prime minister traveled out   of the country. These latest attacks prompted Haiti`s government to declare a state of emergency as 15,000 people were forced to flee their homes,   adding to the more than 300,000 people already displaced by gang violence. This is just a brief high level view of what`s going on in Haiti. So let`s go to our David Culver who has witnessed this situation firsthand. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DAVID CULVER, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  So we`re like a block away?  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yeah. CULVER:  It`s as close as we can get driving, so we layer up and walk.  Oh, yeah. You can already smell it. Look at people still making their commute as tires are burning right in the middle of this street here. (voice-over):  No police barricade, no firefighters, most seemingly unfazed. These flames have been burning for several hours. Haiti has been   engulfed in turmoil for years. We don`t have a home to live them. We don`t have food to eat. That`s what they`re shouting. Many here now fear their country is on the brink of exploding.  Does it feel safe right now? JUNOT SAMEDI, PROTESTER:  No, no, no.  CULVER:  No, no, no. SAMEDI:  No, it does. It doesn`t seem. My country is broken right now. CULVER:  These folks blame the current government and Prime Minister Ariel Henry, appointed following the assassination of President Jovenel Moise in   2021. They want Henry to go, but he says he`s not yet ready to step down.  This as panicked street shootouts like this one have become a near daily occurrence. It`s often a clash between police and the gangs, which have   essentially taken Haiti hostage.  They flaunt their weapons and wealth on TikTok, threatening police and basking in lawlessness. Many residents now living behind barricades.  This is not the gangs doing this the folks that live in these neighborhoods who are putting these up to prevent gangs from coming in and kidnapping.   Using whatever might stop or slow the kidnappers, efforts to protect families and preserve innocence.  In recent months, gangs have seized more and more control over this country, including the roads leading to Port-au-Prince. Officials estimate   that gangs now control as much as 80 percent of the capital, even the U.S. embassy and international airport are mostly surrounded by rival gang   territories.  It`s led the Haitian national police to create an undercover unit. We go with them to the front lines.  CAITLIN HU, CNN SENIOR EDITOR:  This unit actually goes into gang areas, looks for gang members and fights them.  And you can see they`re getting ready?  CULVER:  Yes. Our drivers on geared up now ready for potential gunfire to come our way. Stay away from the windows as we come in here. They described this as the last defensive point. And beyond here is what they consider to be their   front lines. From here, you can see the battlefield, no signs of any suspected gang members for now. Police are not the only ones trying to gain the upper hand here. In a fractured state, alternatives to the gangs and government surface. We`re headed to meet a commander of BSAP, Haiti`s armed environmental protection agency that has splintered from the Henry government,   challenging its legitimacy.  We pulled up to a gated compound. The man in the purple shirt leads us in. He then changes into his BSAP uniform. It`s the commander. He`s in hiding   from police.  His message echoes the anti-government protester. He flexes BSAP`s strength and numbers and its potential to help bring stability. But when it comes to   his own family --   You mentioned you have four kids. What do you think their future is in this country? He fears their future is best served leaving Haiti. The question that no doubt people in the U.S. will ask is, well, why should we help? JEAN-MARTIN BAUER, WFP HAITI DIRECTOR:  Well, there are two reasons why you need to help. First of all, there -- on humanitarian grounds. But then   there`s also your own self-interest in the U.S. So the longer you wait to act on Haiti, the more migrants there will be on your southern border. It`s   that simple. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, they see me roll, and tumbleweeds taking over the city of Eagle Mountain in Utah. Look at this.   It looks like a scene you might see in Fortnite.  Blizzards and high winds in the western U.S. have prompted tumbleweeds to swarm roads, houses, vehicles, local authorities are calling this windstorm   a tumble-mageddon. Thanks for rolling with me today. Let`s take some great energy into the day and finish up strong tomorrow.  I want to show some love today. Redwood Valley Middle School in Redwood Falls, Minnesota, keep soaring to great heights, Cardinals.  And this shout-out goes to the Chargers at Pearl City High school on the island of Oahu in Hawaii. Aloha.  Have an awesome day, y`all. I`m Coy Wire and I`ll see you tomorrow. END     

Date: 2024-03-08
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, lovely people. Happy Friday, Friyay. And Happy International Women`s Day. We`ll start this March 8th by putting   the spotlight on two difference-making women whose lives and actions shine bright to this day.  First up, civil rights pioneer Claudette Colvin at the age of 15 in the year 1955, she refused to give up her seat to a white passenger on a bus in   Montgomery, Alabama. That was nine months before Rosa Parks famously did the same.  For her act of protest, Claudette was arrested and accused of violating the city`s segregation rules and assaulting a police officer. She later   petitioned to clear her record, and 66 years later, her request was granted in 2021.  Claudette, who`s now 84 years old, remained an unsung hero of the racial justice movement until the book about her life by Philip Hoose won the   National Book Awards for Young People`s Literature in 2009.  Next, we honor the life of Kate Sheppard, an activist who helped New Zealand become the first country in the world to allow women to vote back   in 1893. Originally born in Liverpool, England, she immigrated to New Zealand in her early 20s and became an activist as a member of the Women`s   Christian Temperance Union, which advocated for women`s suffrage as a way to fight for liquor prohibition.  Kate, however, took her activism way beyond that, become a leader in New Zealand`s suffrage movement, fighting for issues ranging from   representation in Parliament to freedom from wearing the corset. Her activism work in New Zealand and abroad inspired women`s rights movements   around the world, rise up.  Next up, we examine cutting-edge technology behind a human brain chip that can translate neural activity into commands on a computer. You may remember   Elon Musk announced about five weeks ago that a person received an implant from his company Neuralink for the first time, but there are other   companies like Synchron who have been implanting people in its clinical trial in the U.S. for years. CNN`s Chief Medical Correspondent, Dr. Sanjay   Gupta, goes behind the scenes with the folks at Synchron to learn how this groundbreaking technology aims at changing lives for the better.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Up, down left, right -- everything you are watching happen on this screen right now   is being controlled only with Mark`s thoughts. (On camera):  So that just sent out a health notification. MARK, STENTRODE PATIENT:  Uh-huh. GUPTA (voice-over):  He describes it as contracting and then relaxing his brain. MARK:  It takes concentration. It`s a pretty involve process. Its one I don`t take lightly. GUPTA:  This has all been pretty sudden for Mark. He was diagnosed with ALS in 2021. Mark has since lost control of his hands and arms. He would likely   lose his voice. Mark didn`t hesitate to sign up for a clinical trial to have this placed in his brain. It`s called a stentrode. MARK:  To me, it gives me the opportunity to be able to continue to do things that I`m able to do now, just by thinking about it. GUPTA:  In the world of brain-computer interfaces, or BCIs, it is still early days. In fact, up until recently, it`s mostly led to monkeys being   able to play pong. But Synchron was one of the first companies in the world to get FDA approval for human trials. And Mark is one of those first   humans. It`s all the brainchild of this man, Dr. Tom Oxley. DR. TOM OXLEY, CEO, SYNCHRON:  For people who have got paralysis or motor impairment, but they have that part of the brains still working, then if   you can put a device in, get the information, get it out of the brain then you can turn what previously was a signal controlling your body into a   single that controls the digital devices. GUPTA:  The stentrode is the device that Oxley and his team at Synchron created. It`s a cage of thin wire mesh with electrode sensors that can   detect the electrical brain activity translate that activity, and then transmitted to devices such as a phone or a computer. MARK:  It`s amazing. It`s all I can say. GUPTA:  And just like a stent, it doesn`t require open brain surgery. Instead, it`s able to travel through the body`s natural network of veins   and sit in a major vein, right in the middle of the brain. Our brains have billions of neurons firing electrical impulses that control our movements, everything from shaking hands to taking a step. Each and   every one of those actions is associated with a specific electrical signature. The stentrode, which again sits right here around that area of   the brain responsible for movement, learns to recognize those specific electrical patterns and essentially creates your own personalized   dictionary of movement. It`s a hope for patients of the future and a chance for Mark to continue living a full life now. GUPTA:  The brain control interface, pong tournament. MARK:  Exactly. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Pop quiz, hot shot. Which president was the first to call his annual speech to Congress a "State of the Union" address?  Martin Van Buren, George Washington, William Howard Taft, Franklin D. Roosevelt.  FDR doesn`t just stand for factually definitely right. It also stands for Franklin D. Roosevelt. The first president to refer to the annual address   to Congress as the State of the Union. It became official in 1947, though, under President Harry Truman.  President Joe Biden delivered his State of The Union speech last night, a high-stakes moment as he`s preparing to face former President Donald Trump   in a likely rematch in the general elections in November.  Trump and Biden dominated their respective Super Tuesday races this week while two of their respective party rivals former U.N. ambassador Nikki   Haley on the Republican side and Representative Dean Phillips on the Democrats side both ended their campaigns.  We`ll show you some key points from President Biden`s address and break down how both sides of the political aisle are responding to the State of   The Union on Monday`s show, but there`s some other political news worth touching on today.  The U.S. Congress avoiding a partial government shutdown this week agreeing to continue funding the government on a temporary basis until they can vote   on individual spending deals, also known as appropriations bills.  Top Democrats and Republicans have already agreed to six funding bills for various government agencies and are now working towards agreements for six   others before a new March 22nd deadline. This is the first time since 2018 that Congress has not funded the government by tying all appropriations   bill into a single deal.  Next up the oldest dead galaxy ever observed. It was spotted with the James Webb Space Telescope and astronomers and researchers say that this galaxy   existed when the universe was only about 700 million years into its current age of about 13.8 billion years.  So what is a dead galaxy? It`s essentially a galaxy that no longer has the ability to form new stars because there isn`t enough gas that`s needed to   create them. Some factors that can cause the gas to disappear or dissipate are a supermassive black hole, stars violently interacting, and new stars   consuming all the remaining gas when they`re born.  The astronomers and researchers observing this newly discovered dead galaxy have been left puzzled and they are still trying to uncover the reason the   stars there lived fast and died young more than 13 billion years ago.  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a clash of competitors creating cardboard crafts that can coast across a snowpack track without crash. Our   Jeremy Roth has more.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEREMY ROTH, CNN REPORTER:  On a snowy Pennsylvania mountain where teams took to the powder in a kooky contraption crafting competition cleverly   coined, the "Cardboard Classic." The creative competition is simple. Craft an elaborate sled from cardboard and try to make it to the bottom of the   mountain.  Easier said than done. But the designs did not disappoint. There was even a giant cardboard Johnny 5.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I`m alive, Stephanie.  ROTH: You see, kids "short-circuit" was an `80s sci-fi comedy about a killer robot named Johnny 5 that gets hit by lightning so naturally it   comes alive, learns to read, finds love and hangs out with Steve Guttenberg. It makes sense, right? It`s science.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right lovely people, remember this Sunday starts daylight saving time so get your minds right we`ll be losing an hour of sleep, got to rally   up and do what we got to do.  Now, what I have to do is show some love today to all the brave in the bold at Paragould High School, all the Rams in Paragould, Arkansas. We see you.  And this shout out goes to the Blue Streaks closing out their week. Shout out to Warren Hills Regional High School in Washington, New Jersey. Rise   up. Shine bright this weekend, y`all. You never know who, you never knew when or how, but you can be the light that someone needs.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2024-03-11
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people, I`m Coy Wire. Welcome to the show. I have some motivation Monday for us this March 11th from former   South African President Nelson Mandela who said, do not judge me by my successes, judge me by how many times I fell down and got back up again.   Awesome stuff. Let`s stay humble, stay hungry and start this week off strong.  We start today by breaking down some of the key takeaways from President Joe Biden`s State of the Union speech. This annual event allows U.S.   presidents to outline priorities for the year and keep the public informed about the direction of the government. This was a high stakes moment in   President Biden`s reelection campaign.  According to a recent Times/Siena Poll, he`s facing an approval rating of around 38% as he seeks to reassure voters who might doubt his leadership   and may favor former President Donald Trump. Biden started his speech with a call to protect democracy at home and abroad by adopting the bipartisan   national security bill. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOE BIDEN, (D) U.S. PRESIDENT:  If the United States walks away, it will put Ukraine at risk. Europe is at risk. The free world will be at risk,   emboldening others to do what they wish to do us harm. My message to President Putin, who I`ve known for a long time, is simple. We will not   walk away. (CHEERING & APPLAUSE) (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  President Biden criticized former President Trump, his likely opponent in the November general election, multiple times, but notably did   so without mentioning his name.  (END VIDEO CLIP) BIDEN: My predecessor, a former Republican president. My predecessor -- my predecessor.  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Now, for the most part, Biden focused his speech on economy. He spoke to his stance on taxes, promising that under his plan, families   earning less than $400,000 won`t be paying any additional federal taxes. Biden also highlighted his work on America`s financial recovery post-  pandemic.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) BIDEN:  I inherited economy that`s on the brink. Now our economy is literally the envy of the world. Fifteen million new jobs in just three   years, a record, a record. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Biden`s State of the Union address and his big win on Super Tuesday last week, as well as former President Trump`s kick off what appears to be   an election season headlined by a presidential rematch. Our Chief National Affairs Correspondent examines what both candidates need to do as they   pivot their focus to November. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT (voice over):  The curtain finally goes up on a historic presidential rematch, Joe Biden and   Donald Trump. Emerging from Super Tuesday primaries as the effective nominees of their parties. But there are warning signs in winning, with   both men facing distinct challenges of rebuilding their coalitions.  Nikki Haley, the last standing Republican rival, suspended her campaign without offering an endorsement. NIKKI HALEY, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  It is now up to Donald Trump to earn the votes of those in our party and beyond it who did not   support him, and I hope he does that. ZELENY:  Eight months before the general election, the Republican Party is rallying around Trump. DONALD TRUMP (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  November 5th is going to go down as the single most important day in the history of our country. ZELENY:  Senator Mitch McConnell, who hasn`t spoken to Trump in more than three years, offered his endorsement, saying, it should come as no surprise   that as the nominee, he will have my support. Tonight, after a string of Democratic primary victories, President Biden is preparing to make his case at the State of the Union Address on Thursday, a   primetime opportunity to tackle myriad challenges he faces to win re- election. Biden easily swept away long-shot rivals like Dean Phillips, but a series of protest votes made clear he faces the task of uniting Democrats too,   like in Minnesota on Tuesday, where uncommitted received 19% of the vote.  With a general election contest finally taking shape, history will be tested anew, as Trump seeks to become the first president since Grover   Cleveland was voted out of office to be sent back for a second term. ZELENY (on camera):  So the sequel between Biden and Trump will play out in a far different political context. And there are wildcards galore, from   Trump`s criminal cases to Biden`s foreign policy challenges and the fitness of both of these presidential candidates. There is no doubt these primaries have shown the vulnerabilities of both campaigns and both candidates. There`s no modern-day historical guide for   the campaign that is to come, but it starts now. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. Which country was the first to enact Daylight Saving Time?  France, United Kingdom, Germany, or the United States?  If you said Germany, you`re awesome. On April 30th, 1916, Germany adopted Daylight Saving Time as it looked to conserve electricity. Weeks later, the   United Kingdom followed suit.  All right, how are we feeling today? Losing an hour of sleep is no good. In most of the U.S. and many other countries around the world, we spring ahead   or move our clocks forward by one hour in early spring, then fall back or move them back an hour again in mid to late fall. But most of us might not   actually have to physically change too many clocks, right, because our devices might do it for us. But what if I told you, you had to change 2,000 clocks? That`s the task at hand for clockmasters at London`s Palace of Westminster. CNN followed the   small team there a few years ago as they tick-tocked their way through adjusting those clocks before British lawmakers arrived to work. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ALEX JEFFREY, CLOCKMAKER, PALACE OF WESTMINSTER:  Oh, I love talking about clocks. I could talk about clocks all day. Not everyone wants to hear about   them, but everyone wants to hear about the clocks at the Palace of Westminster. Whether it`s Big Ben, whether it`s just being interested in   such a busy building, working on clocks, doing the time change, maintaining, it`s something I take a lot of pride in. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Ian Westworth and Alex Jeffery are part of a small team of clockmakers at the Palace of Westminster in London. Twice a year, when   the clocks spring forward or fall back across the United Kingdom, they have the responsibility of adjusting 2,000 timepieces before lawmakers return to   work. JEFFREY:  There`s 2,000 clocks on the parliamentary estate. There`s 500 heritage clocks. There`s two days, and it`s our task to perform the GMT   time change. IAN WESTWORTH, CLOCKMAKER, PLACE OF WESTMINSTER:  We have clocks here that predate this palace, and some that were designed specifically for this   palace. We do actually come across clocks that we`ve never found before. It only happened the other week. An MP contacted us saying, I`ve got a clock in my office that hasn`t run for some time. And I`m thinking, I`ve been here 18 years, and I`ve never   been into your office. He said, that`s probably why it hasn`t worked. JEFFREY:  The time changes were put in initially as a mechanism, a practical mechanism, to take advantage of daylight hours in the summer. So   it`s important, I think, to keep that tradition. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  In the United Kingdom, Winston Churchill championed the concept of Daylight Saving during the First World War before he became   prime minister, believing that the country could save energy by stretching the hours of evening sunlight.   The practice has spread across the world. In the U.S., most states observe daylight saving, moving clocks forward in the spring. Only Hawaii and most   of Arizona don`t.  In the U.K., a 2019 poll showed that a small majority of Britons want to keep changing the clocks. At the Palace of Westminster, its resident   clockmakers are responsible for maintaining this tradition. WESTWORTH:  Even with this digital world, you know, everybody`s got a computer with a clock at the bottom or they`ve got a digital watch on. But   the MPs and the Lords or the staff who`ve actually got a ticking clock in their office, one of the first things they look at is the ticking clock and   not the one on the wrist. Our job is to make sure that every day these clocks are working for them.  Ah, the last clock of the day before doing great clock tonight. JEFFREY:  You know, there`s a lot of ground to cover. I left my step count on last year and it was 55,000 steps. It`s very time consuming, but it`s   very rewarding. You know, we can say to each other, well done guys. It`s a job well done. And when people turn up for work on Monday, they`re right on   time. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10? Well, I`ll be darned. The New England Aquarium`s aerial unit captured a sight of the elusive gray whale.   The species disappeared from the Atlantic Ocean in the 18th Century, more than 200 years ago, but it`s back. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Scientists say these images captured in March are, quote, "an incredibly rare event." The New England Aquarium aerial survey   team spotted a gray whale 30 miles south of Nantucket. Gray whales are common in the North Pacific Ocean, but in the Atlantic, they were thought   to be long gone. They disappeared from the Atlantic in the 18th Century, more than 200 years ago.  Scientists say climate change accounts for the whale`s reappearance. The Northwest Passage connecting the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans has regularly   been ice free in recent summers. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  All right, before we say farewell, we are showing some love today. This shout out goes to Hankins Middle School in Theodore, Alabama. We hope   you absolutely crush it this week, Cougars. And this shout out goes to the Kodiaks at Cascade High School in Leavenworth, Washington. Rise up.  Thanks to all of you for subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube channel for your shout out requests. I`ll see you tomorrow, lovely people.   I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-03-12
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, superstar, and welcome to CNN 10, where I tell you the what, letting you decide what to think. I`m Coy Wire. And we   begin on the nation`s capital, where House lawmakers are quickly moving ahead on legislation that could possibly ban the popular social media app   TikTok from the United States. TikTok is used by about 170 million Americans, but this measure is looking to prohibit TikTok from U.S. app   stores unless the app is no longer connected to ByteDance, its parent company, which is based in China.  Some lawmakers are concerned that TikTok could possibly enable the Chinese government to have too much information about its users, alleging that it`s   a possible national security threat.  On the other side, TikTok denies these claims and believes this legislation is an attack on First Amendment rights. This proposed bill has bipartisan   support and is scheduled to be voted by the House quickly. If the bill eventually does make its way to President Biden`s desk, the White House   says President Biden would sign it.  Now, if this proposed bill is put into law, it would allow TikTok about five months to cut ties with ByteDance. If ties were not to be cut, this   measure would prohibit TikTok to be downloaded on app stores in the U.S. Here`s our Manu Raju with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: The House plowing ahead and trying to take up legislation to essentially ban TikTok if the Chinese   firm, ByteDance does not sell it. They`re trying to force that sale because of concerns that the Chinese government is too close to private information   of Americans. They are alleging that the Chinese government is interfering with that information and could exploit it, something that ByteDance has furiously   denied. But nevertheless, this has wide bipartisan support approved by the House Energy and Commerce Committee last week, 50 to nothing. That is   something that is rarely seen on Capitol Hill, but that bipartisan support ultimately forcing the House Majority Leader to put this bill on the floor   very quickly. Steve Scalise said that he would take up this measure, the full House would in just a matter of days. That doesn`t mean though that TikTok isn`t trying   to kill it. In fact, that`s exactly what they`re trying to do. The top Republican who chairs the Energy and Commerce Committee told me that she is   getting flooded with phone calls over people opposed to their efforts. REP. CATHY MCMORRIS RODGERS (R-WA): Yes, we`ve been flooded with calls, record amounts of calls. Any member of the Energy and Commerce Committee   that voted yesterday has been flooded. The co-sponsors have been flooded. TikTok actually put up a notice where they blocked an individual to actually get on TikTok unless you called your member of Congress and told   them not to vote for this legislation, but that`s just an example of how they can manipulate data and influence Americans for their agenda. RAJU: But what will happen in the Senate? That is a completely different question. Altogether here, the senators have some of their own ideas, but   it could take some time to get through but if it does become law, President Biden said he will sign it. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Next up in the Muslim calendar, one of the holiest, most sacred months is the ninth month or Ramadan. Several Muslim countries announced   Monday as the first day of Ramadan, the holy month of fasting, where Muslims may not consume food or drinks from sunrise to sunset. The exact   start date of Ramadan changes because it`s based on clerics seeing a crescent or new moon as the Islamic calendar follows the lunar cycle. There were hopes of a possible ceasefire in the Gaza Strip before the start of Ramadan, but both Hamas and Israel could not reach a deal. While the war   goes on, there`s a humanitarian crisis that continues to grapple the Gaza Strip. The U.S. is teaming up with several other nations by airdropping aid   into Gaza, but aid agencies recommend that it would be much more efficient if these supplies were transported on the ground. Our chief international   correspondent, Clarissa Ward, is here to give us the why. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: From the health ministry inside Gaza, they are now saying that 25 have died as a result of   acute malnutrition and dehydration. CNN cannot independently confirm that because international journalists are not allowed into Gaza to report on   the ground. But it certainly gels with what we have been hearing from groups like the U.N., who have warned that hundreds of thousands of Gazans   in the northern part of the enclave are one step away from famine, who have announced, as you mentioned, that four out of five people do not have -- or   four out of five households, I should say specifically, do not have access any longer to clean water.  And while these airdrops, you know, show a certain level of intention and goodwill, they, according to aid organizations, are not terribly efficient   and effective in terms of the mechanism for actually distributing aid.  We heard from one humanitarian worker who said they`re a great photo op, but they are terrible in terms of trying to make sure that people on the   ground get the aid they need. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia.  Which of these countries has the largest economy in East Africa? Tanzania, Ethiopia, Kenya, or Rwanda? If you said Kenya, Kenya, put your hands up. The National Treasury of Kenya attributes rapid economic growth and dominance in the region to factors   like public investments, policies encouraging smallholder, agricultural production, and incentives for private and often foreign industrial   investment.  Let`s head to Kenya now, where the East African country is dealing with a rise in the rhinoceros population. Overcrowding in sanctuaries has caused   problems such as rhinos attacking each other and competing for food. It`s such a concern that the Kenya Wildlife Service is transporting 21 rhinos to   a new location. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It takes nearly a dozen people to get this five-year-old black rhino up on its feet as the tranquilizer wears off. With the tracker   securely glued to her horn, she is ready to move 100 miles away.  Kenya has an unusual problem. Rhino populations here are actually going up. So Safia and others at this overcrowded rhino sanctuary in central Kenya   are getting a new home.  Decades ago, 20,000 eastern black rhinos like this one ran free in Africa. But in just under 20 years, their numbers plummeted to below 400 as   poachers hunted them for their precious horns.  Now Kenyan rhinos are making a comeback, thanks to anti-poaching efforts. But overcrowding in sanctuaries has become a problem for the solitary   animal. DR. ISAAC KELOLOOL, HEAD OF VETERINARY AND CAPTURE, KENYAN WILDLIFE SERVICE: When you get to these numbers, when they exit the current   capacity, what happens first is you get territorial fights. So you find males killing each other. There`s also the pressure on the food   availability for the individuals.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: To give them a little more roaming space, 21 rhinos were taken to a brand-new sanctuary in Loisaba Conservancy. They are the first   rhinos to live on the land in 50 years. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a video-bombing bird doing its best to break up a beat on broadcast TV, CNN`s Jeanne Moos has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Look at this.  JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Reporters are supposed to be able to wing it, but this was like something out of the birds.  OK, maybe not that extreme. But Australian reporter Ursula Heger was filing a report for 10 News First when she got dive-bombed over and over.  URSULA HEGER, 10 NEWS FIRST AUSTRALIAN REPORTER: Involving a taxi fare on January the 30th last year in Twickenham, an area southwest of London.  Now this -- oh, shoot -- (laughing). MOOS: Dive-bombed nine times. Her own station called it "impeccable" journalism. Instead of doing this, Ursula did this. HEGER: Stood there and took it.  MOOS: At least she didn`t get used as a landing strip by, say, a robin or a pet parrot.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: One just landed on the umpire. MOOS: And Ursula didn`t get her earbud plucked like this reporter in Chile.  Ironically, he was reporting on a rise in robberies. They did manage to get the earbud back from the parrot. The way Ursula handled the attack was a feather in her cap.  HEGER: One of the most ridiculous moments of my life.  MOOS: Could have been worse if she got pecked by a woodpecker. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Talk about foul play, and a "hawkward" situation. But that reporter had no egrets taking the "birden" in stride, delivering an impeccable   report that was like poultry in motion.  All right, remember tomorrow`s #YourWord Wednesday. So follow me @coywire on Instagram, Snapchat and TikTok. Drop your unique vocabulary word in the   comment section on my most recent post and we`ll choose a winner to work into tomorrow`s show.  All right, shout out to the Ships at Manitowoc Lincoln High School in Manitowoc, Wisconsin. And as a former wrestler, special shout out to MJ   Newman and Amelia Fowler for their performances at States and MJ for her historic win.  And this shout out goes to Madison Middle School in Bartlesville, Oklahoma. We see you Bruins.  Rise up everyone. We`ll see you tomorrow. I`m Coy Wire. We are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-03-13
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, and wonderful Wednesday to you. I`m Coy Wire, bringing you best 10 minutes in news right here on CNN 10. It is Your   Word Wednesday, so listen to see if your word submission made it into today`s show. We start with the year of the election, 2024. And not just here in the United States, many countries around the world are having their own   important national elections this year. Nations with people heading to the polls this year include some of the most powerful and wealthiest countries   in the world, as well as the most populous, like India, South Africa, Mexico, and in Europe, where the United Kingdom is leaning towards   elections later this year. And countries with hundreds of millions of voters will be headed to the polls to elect a new parliament for the European Union. One of the major   concerns with elections this year is advanced technology, particularly artificial intelligence and how it has the potential to persuade and even   mislead voters with disinformation. AI generated fake videos, deepfakes, could trick voters into believing they are watching and hearing a   presidential candidate, when in reality they are not. Yesterday in the U.S., voters in Georgia, Hawaii, Mississippi, and the State of Washington cast their ballots in their respective primaries. It`s   expected that both President Joe Biden and former President Donald Trump will clinch their party`s nomination.  Let`s turn now to our Simon Cullen, who breaks down this crucial election year for several nations across the world. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SIMON CULLEN, CNN JOURNALIST:  2024 is an election year like none other. DONALD TRUMP, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  We will turn the page forever on the miserable nightmare of the Biden presidency. JOE BIDEN, (D) U.S. PRESIDENT:  Donald Trump sees a different America, an American story of resentment, revenge and retribution. CULLEN:  While the U.S. presidential race might be the highest profile, it`s just one of dozens taking place internationally, covering more than   half the world`s population. OLIVIA O`SULLIVAN, UK PROGRAMME DIRECTOR, CHATHAM HOUSE:  Many countries, the health of their democracy itself will be being put to the test. CULLEN:  And the outcome has the potential to reshape international affairs on a scale rarely seen.  (On camera):  While the results of some elections are all but guaranteed, others will be a genuine contest, meaning a relatively small shift in voter   support could affect the outcome. That amplifies the potential impact of disinformation. And experts warn that risk is made even more significant by the fact that these elections are coinciding with a boom in artificial intelligence.  (On camera):  That brings with it the prospect of deepfake content like this. BIDEN:  This is an AI generated video showing just how far technology has come in recent years. CULLEN:  Even Russian President Vladimir Putin appeared momentarily surprised when confronted by a computer-generated version of himself. DARRELL M. WEST, SENIOR FELLOW, BROOKINGS INSTITUTION:  People should be scared because the technology is enabling the creation of fake videos that   could be very persuasive with the ordinary voters. People are not going to be able to distinguish the fake videos from real ones.  CULLEN:  Are governments ready for what`s coming down the line? WEST:  Governments are not ready. There are literally no guardrails in place. CULLEN:  That`s prompted dozens of technology companies to step in, signing an accord aimed at combating the misuse of artificial intelligence in   elections. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Democracies depend on free and fair elections. Free and fair elections depend on trustworthy information and trustworthy   information depends on transparency about the nature and the provenance of that information. CULLEN:  The accord requires the world`s leading tech companies to develop tools to help identify and label AI generated content. They`ve also agreed   on the need to respond more quickly when deceptive AI generated material spreads online. But even they concede the task ahead won`t be easy. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We are combating not just individuals, unfortunately, but well-resourced nation states, including one in particular. CULLEN:  Even though the Kremlin denies it, countless intelligence reports confirm Russia`s election interference efforts. But the Microsoft president   warns Russia`s level of sophistication is growing, fueled by advances in artificial intelligence. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Pop quiz, hot shot. What does the standardized test used for college admissions in the U.S., the SAT, stand for? School Achievement Test,   Scholastic Aptitude Test, Standard Aptitude Trial, Study and Triumph. If you said Scholastic Aptitude Test, you are on your way to a perfect 1600, the highest score you can get on the SAT.  No need to bring your number two pencils to an SAT anymore because this college admissions test is now fully digital. Test takers still have to be   there in person and supervised, so no badinage with friends during the test. The SAT will be taken on a laptop or tablet and the exam will be shorter. Where it was three hours before, it`s now down to two. It will still be   based on a 1600-point scale and the results will come back sooner in a matter of days instead of weeks. But a concern for some, this digital version is also adaptive, meaning it will serve harder questions the better you do, which some students say   increases test anxiety and overthinking. These changes from the college board are an effort to make this standardized test more accessible to   students. As many colleges made it optional to submit standardized test scores, especially during the pandemic, more elite universities have   announced a shift in now requiring students to include these test scores with their applications. But on the other side, some critics believe standardized tests can be a disadvantage for lower income students because they may have limited   resources to study and prepare for these tests.  For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, we`re going to a Starbucks in Washington, D.C. that`s the only one of its kind in the U.S. It was   designed with the deaf and hard of hearing communities in mind. We`re going to experience this special coffee shop the same way its customers do with   no sound. If you`re not fluent in American sign language, don`t worry. We have subtitles.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MATTHEW GILSBACH, STORE MANAGER STARBUCKS:  When you first walk in, you notice that there`s no music. It`s a highly visual store. People are   signing all over the place.  There`s a large deaf community here in Washington, D.C. Starbucks` mission and values is to create an inclusive environment for everyone. And this is   the first U.S. signing store.  On a daily basis, people come in and they want to learn how to sign their name, how to sign their beverage. You have a variety of options. You could   use a tech pad to write out your order. You could use a picture menu to point to a variety of core beverages. You could point to the coffee that   you want if it`s drip, tall -- gesture. Different ways to communicate.  When your order is finished, a monitor will show your name and we`ll point to that, "Hello, your drink is ready!" And hand that to you, creating that   connection. For the past month, I`ve seen customers come in and they`ll write, "Thank you for opening this store." Other businesses out there need to see this   model. To see what it looks like, and be a profitable business with this model, with deaf people running the store.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Absolutely awesome. Love -- all that love and positivity.  Congrats to Ali Polk and Ms. Gill and all the Warriors at Andrew Jackson Academy in Earhart, South Carolina for today`s #YourWordWednesday winner,   badinage, a noun, meaning humorous or lighthearted conversation. Well done.  Today`s shout out goes to some more Warriors at Wasatch Junior High School in Millcreek, Utah. We see you. And this shout out goes to Victoria Fertitta Middle School in Las Vegas, Nevada. Keep on flying and soaring high, Firebirds. Rise up. See you tomorrow, superstars. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-03-14
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, Sunshine. Happy Friday Eve, just today and tomorrow, and then we`re going to be rocking into the weekend. I`m Coy   Wire. This is CNN 10, where I tell you the what, letting you decide what to think.  Let s start today with the latest crisis we`re seeing in Haiti. Since we last discussed this story last week, the Caribbean nation is still seeing   chaos as coordinated gangs have continued to attack law enforcement and state institutions, especially in the capital Port-au-Prince. These gangs had been demanding the resignation of the country`s Prime Minister Ariel Henry, and now their demands are being met. Earlier this   week, Henry said he and his government will relinquish their power after a new prime minister and cabinet have been selected. Prime Minister Henry has   not been in Haiti for weeks, as he left for Kenya to sign an agreement for Kenyan forces to help restore order in Haiti. But Kenyan officials say that   a Haitian government needs to be put into place before they will allow their soldiers to be deployed there.  The U.S. is trying to help Haiti by funding a total of $300 million to the Kenyan-led security missions, as well as assisting the Haitian people by   contributing an additional $33 million for humanitarian assistance.  Speaking of the Haitian people, the gang violence has spiraled out of control. CNN is reporting that tens of thousands have been forced to leave   their homes, and more than 300,000 are displaced. The United Nations estimates about 80% of Haiti`s capital is now being controlled by gangs.   Our Patrick Oppmann has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PATRICK OPPMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: For more than a week, Haiti`s marauding gangs prevented Prime Minister Ariel Henry from returning to the country he   was supposed to lead, until finally Henry reached a breaking point and agreed on Monday night to resign. ARIEL HENRY, HAITIAN PRIME MINISTER (through translator): My government will leave immediately after the inauguration of the council. We will be a   caretaker government until they name a prime minister and a new cabinet. Haiti needs peace. Haiti needs stability. OPPMANN (voice-over): Henry had traveled from Haiti to Kenya to sign an agreement with the government there to provide troops to fight the out-of-  control gangs terrorizing his beleaguered nation. Once he left, the gangs united to further batter the Haitian government in a series of coordinated   attacks.  The latest explosion of violence leading to a massive jailbreak that freed thousands of prisoners closed the country`s main airport indefinitely and   forced the United States and other embassies to evacuate diplomats via helicopter. The news of Henry`s impending resignation is not placating the   leaders of gangs, though, who have threatened an all-out civil war.  JIMMY "BARBEQUE" CHERIZIER, HAITI GANG LEADER: We in Vivasan (ph) are demanding that the Haitian people must choose the person who will lead the   country. OPPMANN (voice-over): But it is the Haitian people who are suffering the most. More than 300,000 have been displaced by the violence, the U.N. says,   gangs block access to food, water, and hospitals.  On Monday, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken met with regional leaders in Jamaica and announced an increase in U.S. funding to the security   mission to be led by Kenyan troops. ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: I`m announcing today that the United States Department of Defense is doubling its approved support for   the mission from $100 million to $200 million. And that brings the total U.S. support to $300 million for this effort. OPPMANN (voice-over): Following the announcement that Henry will resign, Kenyan officials now saying a government needs to be in place in Haiti   before their troops can deploy, creating more doubt of when exactly they will have boots on the ground to begin fighting the heavily armed local   gang. For too many Haitians living in a country where there is no longer a functioning government, no escape from the violence. It is already too   late.  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Ten second trivia. There`s been an uproar online over the cost of a Big Mac meal at a McDonald`s in Darien, Connecticut. What`s the price? $10, $12, $18 or $20?  If you said $18, that is correct. It`s becoming an increasing trend on social media to see users sharing a look at their fast-food meals and   questioning the cost as prices skyrocket in the U.S.  Now, you may be familiar with surge pricing from apps like Uber that charge you a different price for the same service, depending on the time of day   and how many people want it at the same time.  Airlines, hotels, event and sports ticket vendors, they have been using this strategy for a long time, allowing them to bump prices up or down,   depending on demand. Well, now, restaurants are experimenting with surge pricing too. The "Wall Street Journal" reports that this month, San Diego-  based Cali BBQ, for instance, would charge you around $18 for a pulled pork sandwich delivered on a Saturday night, but it would only cost you about   $12 on a weekday afternoon. Last month, Wendy`s announced it too would test surge pricing, but after customer backlash, the fast-food chain said it would instead offer   discounts in the slower hours. The restaurant industry is still bouncing back after the pandemic. Restaurants are looking into surge pricing as a   way to boost profits and offset growing labor and food costs amid the supply shortages. So what say you? If you own a restaurant, would you try surge pricing? If so, how would you justify and introduce it to your customers? If not, and   you had to boost revenue, how else would you do it?  All right, more and more employees are heading back to work in person post- pandemic, and according to some studies, they`re bringing back some bad habits with them. So much so that some believe a proper workplace etiquette   refresher might be needed. We got a chance to speak with an etiquette expert who gives some workplace tips for how to act appropriately at work,   or school for that matter, along with some good old-fashioned people skills when working alongside others. They might be just as important as the   actual work itself. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CLARE DUFFY, CNN BUSINESS WRITER: The return to the office was tough for many people. It meant returning to long commutes, less flexibility, and an   unwelcome surprise. Some people have forgotten how to behave. A resume builder survey from July found that nearly two-thirds of companies are planning to offer workplace etiquette classes in 2024. The issues are   wide-ranging, from how to behave in front of clients to what conversations are appropriate for the office. And etiquette consultants like Anne   Chertoff say demand is booming. ANNE CHERTOFF, CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, BEAUMONT ETIQUETTE: So in the past two years, we`ve seen 100% increase in companies reaching out to us and   ordering trainings in a variety of topic areas. DUFFY: We spoke with Chertoff about some of the most common workplace behavior faux pas and how managers should handle them. And with the help of   some willing co-workers, she gave us some hands-on pointers.  (On camera): All right, so Anne, talk to us about proper workplace attire. We just saw workplace sweatsuit. What do you think of that? CHERTOFF: So the way we do dress attire today is dress for your day. And if you`re at home, you can definitely wear athleisure. You can wear sweatpants   because you`re not interacting with other people in a visual way. But if you`re going into the office, you need to step it up a little bit. DUFFY (voice-over): Now, some of these issues have been around for a long time.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh, come on. Do you see this? DUFFY: Habits from the work-from-home era are coming back with people as they return to the office.  (On camera): Leaving the dirty dish on the counter, not the right move. CHERTOFF: No, because you`re not being respectful or considerate to the other people that you work with. DUFFY: Taking old-fashioned phone calls around co-workers can also lead to all sorts of problems. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yellow.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yeah, he`s sitting right behind me. Why? DUFFY: It`s not just eavesdroppers who cause friction. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yeah, where are we going? DUFFY (on camera): So if we were trying to get work done here, we were trying to have a meeting, this would probably be a little distracting. CHERTOFF: So sometimes people don`t realize that the volume of their voice is as loud as it is. And I`ve been a victim of that, so I completely get   that. They might not realize that they`re talking so loud. They might not realize that you`ve overheard their entire medical history on the phone. DUFFY: Chertoff told me she works with all types of companies on workplace etiquette. And while all levels of workers participate, dealing with one   group of employees has proven especially tricky. CHERTOFF: Companies are hiring us to come in to teach new hires, Gen Z, right out of college, first job, right out of grad school, but also to kind   of reinforce those skills to colleagues who were out of the office in remote settings for so many years, and now they`re coming back. DUFFY: Now, while this era of return to work has brought its challenges, there`s good news too. Chertoff says all of these things are like muscle   memory. So as we get used to being back together, we should get better at remembering how to behave. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: For today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, what do you get when you cross a ski with a rodeo? A whole lot of awesome. And yeehaw! This is   called skijoring. Folks strapping on some skis or a snowboard, hanging on to a rope pulled by a galloping horse. During this annual competition in   Colorado, these rodeo skiers hit speeds over 40 miles per hour with jumps as high as 8 feet. This event has been a tradition in this Colorado town   since 1949. The word skijoring, did you know, gets its roots from Norway, meaning ski driving.  Giddy up, had fun learning with y`all today, and we`re going to do it again tomorrow. But first, we`re going to show some love. Shout out to the   Dragons bringing the heat from Brunswick Junior High School in Brunswick, Maine. We see you.  And this shout out goes to Teton High School in Driggs, Idaho. Go Timberwolves. Rise up. See you tomorrow. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-03-15
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, sunshine? It`s time to shine. Happy Friday, Friyay.  Let`s finish this week strong with a little luck from the Irish on our side as we head into St. Paddy`s Day weekend.  Let`s begin in Russia. That`s where presidential elections are taking place this weekend. It`s the first Russian presidential election to take place   over the course of three days. Voting has also been organized in four Ukrainian regions that Russia occupied over the course of its ongoing war.  President Vladimir Putin, who`s essentially been in power for the entirety of the 21st Century there, is the clear frontrunner. All the candidates in   this election running opposite Putin are reliably pro-Kremlin, meaning they don`t challenge the policies of the current government and don`t have   popular support. None of them oppose the war in Ukraine.  Two independent candidates who openly did, Yekaterina Duntsova and Boris Nadezhdin, were barred from running by the Central Election Commission,   which controls which candidates can participate in elections. Putin`s approval rating is now at over 80%, according to Levada Center, a nongovernmental polling organization. Their poll also found that three   quarters of Russians somewhat support the war in Ukraine, but more than half would prefer peace negotiations. About half of the respondents follow   the Ukrainian events. CNN`s Matthew Chance is in Moscow to cover the elections and will break down the context and the most likely outcome of this vote. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN CHIEF GLOBAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT:  Well, the outcome of Russia`s election is already pretty clear. Opposition to Vladimir Putin   has been silenced. His biggest critic, Alexei Navalny, was buried earlier this month after dying suddenly in an Arctic penal colony amid wide-scale   repressions, even mourners laying flowers at his memorial, hundreds of them were dragged away by the police.  Earlier this week, Navalny`s Chief of Staff in exile was attacked with a hammer outside his home. Well, this Russian election is also, of course,   taking place against the backdrop of a brutal war in Ukraine, with huge casualties on both sides. Russia has been gaining the upper hand amid Ukrainian shortages of weapons and ammunition, but recent dates have seen Ukraine step up drone attacks   inside Russia, hitting Russian oil facilities in a bid to cause economic damage.  Ukraine-based paramilitary groups opposed to the Kremlin have also been staging dramatic cross-border raids to try and make sure that as Russia`s   elections get underway, ordinary Russians feel the impact of the Kremlin`s Ukraine war. (On camera):  Do you think there`s anybody left in this country who is able to challenge Vladimir Putin? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  There`s always people who -- who are not support Vladimir Putin. And even Alexei Navalny now is dead, there`s always hope.   And I believe that if we don`t have it now, but someday maybe. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia, the first privately funded rocket to launch into space was in which year?  1969, 1977, `82 or `99? Let`s take it back to the 80s, because on September 9th, 1982, the commercial space age began with the launch of Conestoga 1. It was privately   funded by a small Houston-based company called Space Services, Inc. of America. On Thursday morning, SpaceX launched the most powerful rocket in the world. It`s called Starship.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  5, 4, 3, 2, 1. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Hear that rocket roar as the company`s third attempted launch in about a year was considered a success for the company, even though they   lost communication with the craft before it crashed back to Earth. That`s because the mission reached several milestones, including making it further   into this test flight than ever before.  The first attempted launch of Starship last April ended in a midair explosion, and a second attempt in November started promisingly, but ended   prematurely with an explosion and a loss of signal.  As these tests continue, the goal of Starship is to assist NASA`s Artemis program, where it hopes to land U.S. astronauts on the moon as early as   September of 2026. SpaceX also believes Starship can be an integral part in the company`s aspirations to eventually bring humans to Mars.  During the month of March, Women`s History Month, we are highlighting seminal women who`ve transformed the world in profound ways, and today we   want to recognize environmental activist Wangari Maathai. She was the first woman from Africa to win the Nobel Peace Prize. She dedicated her life to advocating for the protection of the environment and   empowering Africa`s most impoverished people.  Maathai founded the Green Belt Movement in Kenya, which helped plant more than 30 million trees there, an effort that inspired the United Nations to   start its own campaign planting about 11 billion trees worldwide. Maathai`s tree planting efforts weren`t just about protecting the environment, they also provided locals, especially women, with the ability   to earn money by selling seeds and access to resources for cooking and clean water.  Next, we want to recognize Lise Meitner. Her knowledge in physics changed the world. Meitner and her colleagues learned that splitting atoms releases   large amounts of energy, and she was the first person to describe and name the process of nuclear fission in a scientific paper. Though, she first   worked as a physics professor in Germany, she had to flee from the Nazi regime there because of her Jewish ancestry.  Later, she was asked to work on the Manhattan Project, which was a program during World War II to help develop the first nuclear weapons. But Meitner   refused to take part on any collaboration of this program and stated, "I will have nothing to do with a bomb."  Today, the scientific community continues to acknowledge her brilliance by naming multiple prestigious physics awards after her, and guess what?   There`s even a chemical element named after her, Meitnerium. For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, it`s been almost a week since we pushed our clocks ahead an hour, lost an hour of sleep, so are you still   feeling a little tired with this time change? I am. And there`s also this groggy doggie who`s feeling our pain. If we`re all feeling not caught up on   our sleep, the Internet sensation struggled to wake up and start his shift at work. He looks over sheep at a farm in Virginia. Our Jeanne Moos has   more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT:  Donuts is his name and his claim to fame.  NATASHA SIMS, OWNER, WOOLLYSHIRE FARM: Oh, another rough night?  MOOS:  Is that he`s a groggy doggie. SIMS:  Are you making your trip back from outer space right now?  MOOS:  With millions of fans who relate to his inability to wake up.  SIMS:  That night shift got you down, boy. (On camera):  He`s really resonated with folks on the night shift and the folks who are not morning people.  MOOS:  This seven-year-old Great Pyrenees mix works the night shift in WoollyShire Farm in Virginia, where he`s the guardian to 15 sheep.  But   nothing --  SIMS:  Let me get you a chest rub this morning. MOOS:  Not chest rubs, not stretches.  SIMS:  A big stretch.  MOOS:  Nothing keeps Donuts from wanting to go back to sleep. SIMS:  Wakey, wakey. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Time to make the doughnuts. MOOS:  If Donuts had an alarm clock, he`d be pressing the snooze function all the time.  SIMS:  Absolutely. Seem to come back in five minutes?  I brought you some casserole for your breakfast.  MOOS:  Not even food works. Even this treat. SIMS:  A doughnut for Donuts.  MOOS:  Sat in his mouth forever before he finally chowed down.  Owner Natasha Sims captioned this video of Donuts slowly walking. Rare footage of Donuts awake. His bright-eyed co-worker britches.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  He`s ready to go. MOOS:  Makes Donuts look like a lump of dough.  SIMS:  You need some more time?  Hey buddy, it`s time to get up for breakfast. MOOS:  Who needs breakfast when you can hit the hay, literally? (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, let`s wake up, up, up. Happy Friday. Keep in touch over the weekend. I`m @coywire on socials. We`re at CNN10 on YouTube.  Before we go, let`s give a shout out to the Knights at Andrew Jackson Middle School in Cross Lanes, West Virginia. Rise up.  And this shout out goes to Chester Area School in Chester, South Dakota. To all the Flyers out there, rise up. Make it an awesome weekend. Be the light   that someone needs. Remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2024-03-18
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, and welcome to CNN 10. I`m your host, Coy Wire. Hope you had an awesome weekend.  Complacency is the constant enemy, so let`s learn one thing, let`s do something today that makes us a little better today than we were yesterday.  Now, we do start with some tough news today. Deadly storms are sweeping across the United States. This is video of hail the size of a baseball   falling in Kansas this past week. It`s part of an intense storm that impacted millions across the country. States throughout the West,   Southeast, and Northeast were on alert for large hail, damaging winds, heavy rainfall, and tornadoes. Several tornadoes touched down in the states of Indiana and Ohio. At least three people died, dozens more were injured as thousands went without power   as many residents had their homes and businesses destroyed by the tornadoes.  In Selma, Indiana, a town of roughly 700 people, about half of the buildings appear to be damaged from the intense storm. Major snow storms   rocked parts of the nation as well. Nearly four feet of snow blanketed parts of Colorado last week, shutting down roads, schools, and businesses.  The first day of spring is tomorrow, but it looks like Mother Nature is putting warmer temperatures off a bit longer as temperatures are expected   to be at or below freezing this week across the nation, impacting more than half of the U.S. population.  Let`s head to Thailand now, where air pollution and smog have brought many concerns to the Southeast Asian country. Thailand`s popular tourist   location in the north called Chiang Mai had the dubious distinction as one of the world`s most polluted cities. That was according to IQAir, which is   a company that monitors air quality. Besides covering the beautiful visuals in this area, it`s also causing health issues. Our Michael Holmes has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN ANCHOR: Not the view some tourists had hoped for, a thick layer of smog covering the city of Chiang Mai in Thailand. On a clear   day, this overlook is usually a popular photo stop, but haze is once again obscuring the view. Perhaps not surprising, since Chiang Mai ranks as one   of the world`s most polluted cities, according to IQAir, a website that monitors air quality. But the smog isn`t just unsightly, it`s unhealthy. IQAir says the level of cancer-causing pollutants in Chiang Mai`s air is more than 20 times higher   than World Health Organization guidelines, and people are getting sick from it. A Thai government report says more than 10 million people required   treatment for pollution-related illnesses last year, with many people wearing masks to protect themselves. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): On the day that I don`t wear a face mask, I`m exposed to pollution. Then I would come home with an   allergic rash on my arm. I can`t breathe. I have a stuffed nose. HOLMES: In northern Thailand, high pollution levels are common during the early months of the year when farmers burn crops to clear the fields. But   this year, the government says it`s taking steps to curb the problem. Legislation for a Clean Air Act is underway, and Thailand`s prime minister   says he`ll impose regulations on crop burning, but didn`t give further details. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia. When was the launch of the Voyager 1 spacecraft?  1964, 1972, `77, or `88? On September 5th of 1977, Voyager 1 launched from Cape Canaveral, Florida. It has explored Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune.  Most of us keep in touch with people who are far away via text message, phone call, maybe a letter. But what do you do when you`re trying to send   or receive messages really far away, like billions of miles up in a spacecraft in outer space far away? That`s exactly what NASA engineers are   dealing with, with the world`s farthest-traveling spacecraft Voyager 1. It`s one of the twin probes that`s been exploring our solar system since   1977, even though it was only built to last five years. Engineers are in communication. Voyager 1 sends a steady radio signal back to mission control. But since November, the probe`s flight data system has   been acting a bit wonky. It can complete given commands, but important data has not been transmitting back to Earth. So what did mission control do?   Well, they poked it. They sent what they call a poke on March 1st, a command prompting Voyager to run different software in case there`s been a glitch. Two days later,   Voyager 1 sent back an unusually formatted response decoded by a member of NASA`s Deep Space Network to show it was the system`s own coding.  The team will compare and contrast this new report to data from the spacecraft before the problem arose, and try to suss out what exactly is   happening on the spacecraft about 15 billion miles away. Question for you. How would you feel about going to a school where they don`t allow any smartphones on campus? Maybe that`s already the case for   some of you. But if not, how would you feel about being away from your phone for eight hours or so each day? If you like the idea, why? If not,   what would be your reasoning for the objection? Our CNN Digital team went to one small high school in Massachusetts where they don`t allow smartphones so we could learn why the school did it and   what the outcome has been. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Buxton School, a small private boarding school for grades 9 to 12 in Massachusetts, banned smartphones on campus back in 2022. JOHN KALAPOS, CO-DIRECTOR: It was absolute chaos.  OWEN, SENIOR: Oh boy. NOELLE, JOHN: People thought it was a joke at first. KALAPOS: They were not happy. Parents were calling us. NOELLE: There was a lot of, like, I can`t live without my phone. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Students tell CNN that they know this place is special. Buxton isn`t like many other schools. It`s home to only 55   students, many living full-time on campus away from their families, making this a tight-knit community. Plus, the school practices progressive education. That means teachers don`t track test scores or grades. But just like more traditional high schools,   teachers at Buxton were struggling to hold students` attention. Kids were glued to their screens. KALAPOS: It was a lot of little things, right? It`s that when you`re teaching a lesson and you can tell that half the class is, like, discreetly   looking under their desk at something. It`s walking into a lunchroom and seeing half the lunchroom scrolling on TikToks instead of talking to their   friends. It`s walking down the path, everyone`s looking down, everyone`s not looking up. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: That is, until administration banned smartphones on campus about a year and a half ago. NOELLE: I`ve been more social, like, naturally instead of being, like, forced to be social. OWEN: People were more there at the meals. I mean, I was sitting with people I didn`t sit with before, with new groups of people and, you know,   talking to all these new people. NORI, JUNIOR: This is from earlier and, like, Iris drew this part without seeing any of this and then Jasper drew this part and then we opened it up   and see, like, what we made all together. OWEN: Last night we had a dorm party.  KALAPOS: We have a black and white photography program here. That photo program went from 12 students to 35 students because now everyone`s   carrying a 35mm camera and printing in the darkroom. OWEN: The initial idea of no phones felt a lot more intense than actually not having phones. It was more like no access to social media all the time   in your pocket. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Most of the students CNN interviewed welcomed the change of pace brought on by the smartphone ban. But the jury`s still out   for some. NORI: I sort of have the opinion that it was not a good idea to ban phones. If you don`t get practice with phones, they are designed to be so   addictive. They`re not getting practice using their phones while going to school and stuff like that. NOELLE: I mean, we still have iPads, we still have computers. People can have flip phones. Like, I think a lot of people are like, the world is   going to end. I don`t know how I`m going to survive without my phone. And I think as time goes on, people have adapted to like using a computer. Like   I`ve sent a lot more emails since I`ve gotten better at emailing. OWEN: I feel like there`s this pressure to have a presence online and to be active with your presence online and do all this stuff online. After not   having a phone and not being able to keep up with that always, I find that that`s not needed. Phones are overrated. Definitely. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, unbelievable scenes as two of the top tennis stars in the world battled it out at Indian Wells. Carlos   Alcaraz and Alex Zverev were playing for a spot in the semifinals and they`re swarmed by what seems like a bazillion bees, an estimated 3,500 of   them, as you can see from this clip from ATP Media. The players made a beeline off the court, but how would they get rid of them? Honey thing is possible. They called a beekeeper named Lance Davis,   who instantly "bee-came" an internet star. He vacuumed up all the bees into a cage and transported them to one of his personal hives. After an hour and   40-minute delay, play "bee-sumed." Alcaraz won. Not all heroes wear capes.  Time for me to "bee" on my way and buzz off, but before I do, we`re sending our swarmest wishes to Southampton Middle School in Southampton, Virginia.   Thank you for subscribing and sending your shout-out requests to our CNN 10 YouTube channel. And this shout out goes to Central High School in Muncie, Indiana. Rise up. Thanks for spending part of your day with us. I`m Coy Wire, going out and making an awesome Monday. Let`s do it again tomorrow. END 

Date: 2024-03-19
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, friends. Welcome back to CNN 10. Rise up. It`s Tuesday, March 19th. Remember, tomorrow is Your Word Wednesday, so   follow me @coywire on social. Put a unique vocabulary word in the comment section of my most recent post, along with the definition, your school,   city, and state, and we`re going to choose a winner to help us write tomorrow`s show.  All right, we begin today in Iceland, where a volcano has erupted again. It`s the fourth time since December a volcano has erupted in southwest   Iceland. This time forcing the evacuation of the popular tourist destination, Blue Lagoon, as well as the nearby town of Grindavik.   According to officials who spoke with Iceland`s public broadcaster, RUV, this eruption is considered as the most powerful of recent seismic   activity. Iceland is one of the most active volcanic areas on the planet. So, despite the potential dangers, the country is well prepared for these events, utilizing anti-lava barriers and other measures to protect people   and critical infrastructure. Our Michael Holmes has the latest for us, and the why, as this latest event is something tourists were hoping to witness. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN ANCHOR (voice-over): A siren wails at the world-famous Blue Lagoon Spa in Iceland. The orange plume lighting up the night sky   means it`s time to evacuate again. For some tourists, this is part of the excitement, one of the reasons they came to Iceland: to see its active volcanoes. And there has been a lot of   activity lately. This is the fourth time since December that a volcano has erupted in Southwest Iceland, less than an hour from the country`s capital,   Reykjavik. The fissure is estimated to be roughly three kilometers long and flowing once again towards the town of Grindavik, where emergency teams are working   to reinforce the town`s defenses. HALLDOR GEIRSSON, GEOPHYSICIST: And most of the flow is going East of the town towards the sea. So it -- it looks like the barriers are really doing   the job they were designed for. HOLMES (voice-over): Grindavik was first evacuated in November after a series of earthquakes split open roads in the town, heralding the   reawakening of a volcanic system which had been dormant for nearly 800 years. Then lava first burst through the surface in December, followed by a second eruption in January that destroyed several homes and buildings in the area. A third eruption last month demolished a hot water pipeline and cut off heat to more than 20,000 people. The last few residents of Grindavik, who had returned to their homes, have been evacuated again. And Icelandic authorities have declared a state of   emergency for the area, calling this the most powerful eruption on the Reykjanes Peninsula since 2021. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz, hot shot. What type of voting led to an election controversy during the 2000 U.S. presidential election?  Hand-counted paper ballots, mechanical lever machines, punch-card machines, direct-recording electronic devices. If you said punch-card machines, you are correct. A grueling 36-day Florida recount battle stemmed from problems with the state`s punch card machines   where poor ballot design left hanging chads on some ballots. Ultimately, George W. Bush won the state and the presidential election.  Let`s turn now to elections, where multiple states will be holding their primaries today, including the State of Arizona. Now, the two dominant   parties, Democrats and Republicans, have their presumptive nominees for the presidential elections, but there are other primary races still taking   place, so these races still matter as local officials work to maintain election integrity, one county in Arizona is dealing with the financial   fallout caused by conspiracy theories regarding their paper ballots.  Back in the 2020 presidential election, theories surfaced that foreign countries inserted fraudulent paper ballots to influence the outcome. Those   who believed these theories wanted more protections, and an Arizona program was created to add extra security features such as watermarks and invisible   fibers onto paper ballots. Cochise County`s recorder, the person who helps run elections, decided to participate, but the process took longer than expected and deadlines were   missed. The result, this Arizona county now has nearly $200,000 worth of supposedly fraud-proof paper that it can`t use. Our Donie O`Sullivan,   examines this expensive mishap. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DONIE O`SULLIVAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): This is a story about paper. Lots and lots of paper. Americans have been voting on paper for most   of the country`s history. But back in 2020, conspiracy theories about paper started to spread. HEATHER MOORE: He`s looking for bamboo-laced ballots. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Fraudulent ballots were unloaded from a South Korean plane -- UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Into Arizona, and it was stuffed into the box. O`SULLIVAN (voice-over): All of that led to this. Five tons worth nearly 200,000 of supposedly fraud proof ballot paper. It`s currently lying on the   floor of this warehouse in Phoenix, and no one is quite sure what to do with this. (On camera): Had there ever been a problem with the paper before? JEFF ELLINGTON, CEO, RUNBECK ELECTION SERVICES, INC.: No, no one`s ever questioned the paper. O`SULLIVAN: And then what happened? ELLINGTON: We get into 2020. There`s rumors of bamboo in the paper and paper from China and a lot of different just stories that circulated. And   so it just kind of went from there and people started questioning it. O`SULLIVAN: As you were seeing that play out, what were you thinking? ELLINGTON: That it was nuts. O`SULLIVAN (voice-over): Enter David Stevens, he ordered the paper. (On camera): Paper itself, ballot paper. People have concerns about that. DAVID STEVENS, COCHISE COUNTY RECORDER: There were concerns, yes. O`SULLIVAN: And what were those concerns? STEVENS: That people were making their own ballots and then interjecting them into the system. They were coming from foreign countries. Maybe we can   make our paper more secure, so we would know quicker or easier if it really is a valid Arizona ballot or if it is not. O`SULLIVAN: Do you personally believe the bamboo paper thing? STEVENS: I don`t know much about it, other than they think it came from wherever. O`SULLIVAN (voice-over): Stevens is a top election official in Arizona`s Cochise County. Cochise is home to Tombstone, but it`s a place where   election conspiracy theories won`t seem to die. In 2022, election skeptics, delayed certification of the midterm elections here. Stevens` opponent in   an upcoming election says he is part of the problem in Cochise. (On camera): Cochise has been in the headlines a lot the last few years because of elections, and mostly for bad reasons. ANNE CARL (D), COCHISE COUNTY RECORDER CANDIDATE: It`s an uphill battle because there are people who spread disinformation about our elections.   This theory that there`s a problem with our paper, so it was a solution in search of a problem because we`ve never had a problem with our ballot   paper. There are all kinds of safeguards and on top of other safeguards to make sure that the wrong ballot paper doesn`t cause any problems. O`SULLIVAN (voice-over): Runbeck Election Services takes these huge rolls of paper and turn them into millions of ballots that are used across the   country. But not these two rolls of special ballot guard paper ordered by David Stevens using a state grant. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So this is a sample of the ballot guard paper. So when you shine on a black light, you get these UV fibers that now become   apparent. Additionally, there`s what`s called an IR tagging, and it`s a chemical in there that when you hold a scanner over it, it`ll vibrate. O`SULLIVAN: Oh wow. (Voice-over): A missed deadline and other bureaucratic snafus has put a halt to the so-called secure paper experiment.  (On camera): So, I mean, it`s essentially $200,000 gone to waste? STEVENS: A little less than that, but yes. O`SULLIVAN: So this sounds like a bit of a nightmare. STEVENS: I -- pretty much, yes. I want it to be over. O`SULLIVAN (voice-over): But Adrian Fontes, Arizona`s top election official, says Stevens` experiment shouldn`t have started in the first   place. ADRIAN FONTES, ARIZONA SECRETARY OF STATE: Well, the economic costs of the conspiracy theories in Arizona are real dollars. Now, the paper that was   purchased by this one county based on these conspiracy theories, that is absolutely useless. And we can`t even use it. They can`t use it. This is   taxpayer dollars down the drain based on lies. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: It is bracket time as March Madness tips off this week with the best men`s and women`s college hoops teams facing off to see who will be crowned   champs. But if all that running and jumping sounds too exhausting for you, maybe it`s not your thing. Maybe we can learn about March Napness. Our Jeremy Roth explains the tournament that`s more about the snores than the scores.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JEREMY ROTH, CNN DIGITAL VIDEO PRODUCER: Finally, move over March Madness make way for March Napness. Oh, it`s a thing, all right. It`s a kooky   competition put on by the FOUR PAWS Animal Welfare Organization, allowing folks to make picks on the hibernation schedules of a slew of sleeping   bears. It`s not too late to fill out an online bracket, and whether you win or lose depends on who hits the snooze. Five more minutes, mom. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: A bracket for napping? Love it. Also love you. Thanks for following and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube channel for your shout out requests. I   want to show some love to the Huskies up in Portland, Oregon, Alice Ott Middle School. I salute you. And want to send a shout out to Fortine Junior High School in Fortine, Montana. We see you, Panthers. See you tomorrow, lovely people.   #YourWordWednesday. Bring it.  I`m Coy Wire. And we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-03-20
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up, sunshine? It`s time to shine. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, and it`s your CNN 10, especially on a   #YourWordWednesday. Remember to keep an ear out to see if your vocab word made it into today`s show.  We begin in Russia, where President Vladimir Putin will continue his reign over the country after easily winning Russia`s election this past weekend.   According to the Central Election Commission, Putin received about 87% of the vote, but U.S. and European countries are dismissing these results   because serious opposition candidates were banned, exiled, or even jailed.  Since 1999, Putin has served as either Russia`s president or its prime minister, and will now continue to rule the nation until at least the year   2030.  Let`s turn now to our Senior International Correspondent, Frederik Pleitgen, who has more on Putin`s dominant victory. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: A landslide victory for Vladimir Putin that was never in doubt, securing the Russian   president a fifth term in office and solidifying his grip on power with a record 87% of the vote. VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): There are a lot of tasks ahead of us, but when we are consolidated, and I think now it is   understood to everyone, no matter how hard anyone tries to frighten us, whoever tries to suppress us, our will, our consciousness, no one has ever   managed to have done such a thing in history. PLEITGEN: Both the U.S. and European countries are condemning the election. Any serious opposition candidates were banned in advance, and dissent   effectively outlawed. And yet, a surprising show of defiance, with protesters targeting dozens of polling stations across the country, setting   fire to ballot boxes, pouring dye into others. While in Berlin, Germany, thousands turned up at the Russian embassy following calls from the opposition to swarm polling stations, including   Yuliya Navalnaya, widow of the late opposition leader Alexei Navalny, who died suddenly in an Arctic Penal Colony last month.  Navalnaya said she wrote her husband`s name on the election ballot and has vowed to continue his work.  And in his post-election address, Putin uttered Navalny`s name for the first time, claiming he would have agreed to release him in a prisoner   swap. Backlash not just from the U.S. and its allies. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy describing the election as, quote, "a sham." VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): These days, the Russian dictator is simulating another election. There is no evil he   will not commit to prolong his personal power. And there is no one in the world who is safe from this. PLEITGEN: Russia`s ally China, though, was quick to congratulate Putin`s reelection, saying it, quote, "fully reflects the support of the Russian   people."  With no one standing in his way, Putin is now on course to rule for as long as Soviet dictator Joseph Stalin. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Next up, health news. Measles, the incredibly contagious disease, is on the rise in the U.S. Measles can lead to very serious complications like   pneumonia or swelling in the brain. The good news is that the measles vaccine is considered one of the most protective. But in other news,   vaccination rates in the U.S. have been declining.  Earlier this week, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC, issued a health alert about the increased risk and how best to protect   yourself. CNN`s Meg Tirrell explains. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MEG TIRRELL, CNN MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: There have been measles cases in 17 states in the United States so far this year, Illinois being one of those.   Measles is an incredibly contagious virus if people haven`t been vaccinated. It`s an airborne virus and it can linger in the air for two   hours after somebody infected has left the room. And it`s so contagious that if people aren`t vaccinated, nine out of 10 susceptible people will get infected with the virus if they are exposed.   Vaccination works incredibly well, 93% effectiveness with one dose of the vaccine, 97% with two doses of the vaccine. Unfortunately, the vaccination rate in the United States among kindergartners has been going down over the past few years. So health   officials are worried that more people are susceptible to measles and are emphasizing that vaccination is the safest and best way to be protected   from this virus. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz, hot shot. In which decade was the term artificial intelligence used for the first time?  The 1950s, the 60s, the 70s or the 80s? If you said 1950s, ding, ding, ding. Dartmouth Professor John McCarthy is credited with coining the term with three other researchers at a summer   workshop in 1956.  Some 68 years after the term "artificial intelligence" was not much more than a vague concept, AI, as we know, is popping up in our daily lives,   everything from schools to the workplace, to the freaking, freaking, freaking -- to the club. That`s right, virtual DJs.  And CNN spent the day with a British startup that makes what they call AI integrated digital humans, including a DJ that performs at shows around the   world. And we wanted to show you all this new idea because we want to hear from you. Let us know what you think. Are these advancements a good thing, simply fun and harmless? Or as some believe, are they hurting us in the long run and   taking away jobs from real life humans? (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Combining 3D technology from the world of gaming with voice cloning and motion capture, Liverpool-based startup Sum Vivas are now   creating digital human avatars integrated with artificial intelligence. DEX, DJ AND INFLUENCER, SUM VIVAS: Hi. Hello, everyone. I am Dex, the UK`s first AI integrated digital human. DENISE HARRIS, CO-FOUNDER AND CCO, SUM VIVAS: In the performance space, it`s game changing. The DJ that I manage, Dex, last -- in the last two   weeks has performed in New York, Paris and Milan. We`re creating new music. So we`re actually working with record labels. We are working with promoters   on shows. We`re working with brands now to do influencer type brand collaborations. ROB SIMS, CO-FOUNDER AND CCO, SUM VIVAS: Utilizing digital humans integrated with AI helps to bridge the gap between technology and people.   They`re available 24-7, 365. They don`t take holidays. They have the ability to be multilingual and they learn and remember every conversation. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But should we be worried about AI`s integration into the world of work? JENNIFER DING, SENIOR RESEARCHER, THE ALAN TURING INSTITUTE: We do see the dreams that have taken over the headlines the past year. The generative   AIs, the chatbots, the LLMs, all kinds of applications are emerging. But alongside, I think there is this fear of skills replacement. So when we   rely on automated tools, what skills are we losing in the process? SIMS: AI is absolutely not scary. It is part of our future. We`re moving to a stage where digital humans will start to become just another member of   the team with added benefits for that team and obviously the customers they serve. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10. Did you know that today is the International Day of Happiness? Back in 2012, the U.N. General Assembly   marked this day to recognize the importance of happiness and well-being. Meditation can be a key to being happy. According to the Center for Healthy Minds, a study showed that two weeks of daily meditation for 30 minutes a   day can help bring more positivity to the brain.  Now, maybe this sounds impossible to you, but Dan Harris, who`s the author of the book, "10% Happier," explains why anyone can embrace meditation,   even if their mind at times seems like a cacophony of thoughts and sounds. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DAN HARRIS, AUTHOR AND HOST OF THE "TEN PERCENT HAPPIER" PODCAST: The whole goal of meditation is just to pick one thing to focus on. Usually it`s the   feeling of your breath coming in and going out. And then every time you get distracted, which will happen a million times, you just start again and   again and again.  And this noticing the distraction and starting again, this is like a bicep curl for your brain. And it`s what shows up on the brain scans of people   who meditate.  And so getting distracted is not proof that you`re failing. It`s proof that you`re doing it correctly. Why? Because the whole goal of this practice is   to get more familiar with the wildness of your mind so that it doesn`t own you as much. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: What`s that? Oh, yeah. Congrats to Mrs. Miller`s World History class at St. John`s School in Ashtabula, Ohio, for their #YourWordWednesday   winner. Cacophony, a harsh mixture of sounds. Thanks for making us smarter today.  Now to the best part of our show. Shout out time. We`re showing some love to Mrs. Kerry Sloan`s classes at Oakley Middle School in Oakley, Kansas.   Rise up.  And this shout out goes to Comstock High School in Kalamazoo, Michigan. Go Colts.  That`s all we have time for today. I`ll see you right back here tomorrow, lovely people. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-03-21
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news. I`m Coy Wire. Happy Friday Eve. It`s Thursday, March 21st. And   we`re going to start today with the latest on the border security battle brewing between the Biden administration and the State of Texas.  You may remember that back in December, Texas Governor Greg Abbott signed into law Senate Bill 4, more often referred to as SB4. This made entering   Texas illegally a state crime and gave state judges the authority to issue deportation orders.  Border security and immigration enforcement are areas the federal government handles. So the law has been paused as the U.S. court system   determines if this state law is constitutional or not. Already, there have been multiple rulings and appeals about whether the law should take effect while those legal decisions are decided. And those   arguments made their way to the Supreme Court earlier this week. Those justices allowed Texas to start enforcing this law, even as some legal   cases were waiting to take place. But just hours later, a federal appeals court placed this measure back on hold while their hearing gets underway. That`s quite the rigmarole,   lengthy, complicated procedure, right? So to simplify things a bit, let`s go to our Rosa Flores, who explains more on what both sides are arguing with this measure. And after watching her   report, take a minute, consider, discuss, do you think our immigration laws here in the United States need reconsideration? And what are the pros and   cons to this bill? (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: SB4 creates a state crime for the illegal entry into Texas or an individual`s, quote, "Illegal presence" in the   state, and gives local law enforcement the power to arrest and judges the power to remove violators. BRANDON JUDD, PRESIDENT, NATIONAL BORDER PATROL COUNCIL: It`s going to cause a drop in illegal immigration through the State of Texas. And that`s   going to be a huge benefit to border patrol agents. It`s going to be a huge benefit to those individuals that want border security. FLORES: Human rights groups warn it will lead to the racial profiling of Latinos who make up 40% of the state`s population. FERNANDO GARCIA, BNHR: We`re fighting against racism, xenophobia and white supremacy. FLORES: This new state crime will mostly be adjudicated in county courts. ADAM HAYNES, POLICY DIRECTOR, TEXAS CONFERENCE OF URBAN COUNTIES: It will clog our courts. FLORES: Adam Haynes from the Texas Conference of Urban Counties lobbied against SB4 on behalf of these 34 Democratic and Republican-led counties   and says that the 6,000 to 7,000 county jail beds across the state could fill up in days. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Senate Bill 4 is finally passed. FLORES: The law, which was passed by the Republican-led Texas legislature and signed by Republican Governor Greg Abbott last year, did not include   funding. DAVID STOUT, EL PASO COUNTY COMMISSIONER: We`re going to be lots of negative impacts, lots more racial profiling. FLORES: El Paso County Commissioner David Stout estimates a new jail in his county could cost $250 million to build and $40 to $50 million annually to   operate. STOUT: This will be the single largest unfunded mandate that we have seen. FLORES: Stout led the charge in his county to sue Texas over SB4 and says he`s in talks with the district attorney and local law enforcement about   interpreting the law narrowly to lessen its impact on county resources.  (On camera): Are you hoping that local police and the sheriff`s office focus on violent crime and not on targeting migrants? STOUT: Yes, I mean, that`s I think, what they typically do. GOV. GREG ABBOTT, (R) TEXAS: Senate Bill 4 --  FLORES: Abbott maintains Texas has constitutional authority to enforce SB4 and that it will not lead to racial profiling. ABBOTT: Officers understand, and that is wrong to profile.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: All right, let`s head to Japan now, which has the fourth largest economy in the world. And the island nation just did something that it   hasn`t done in 17 years, raised interest rates. According to the Bank of Japan, the short-term rates will now increase from minus 0.1% to around   zero to 0.1%.  This move will shift away from the country`s negative interest rate policy, which was initiated years ago to help stimulate a struggling economy. With   more on this move and the future of Japan`s economy, let`s turn now to our Hanako Montgomery, who`s in Tokyo. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) HANAKO MONTGOMERY, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: A bit of background as to why Japan has finally ended negative interest rates. There are really   two key components. The first, we`re finally seeing inflation. The second, wages are finally going up. So right now, the rate of inflation in Japan is   hovering at about 2% for its core consumer prices. That includes everything besides food and fuel. Now, 2% is that magic number you want to see that indicates the economy is healthy and growing in the right direction. This is historic for Japan,   which has seen years and years of deflation. So at the same time, we are also seeing wages increase significantly. On Friday, Rengo, Japan`s largest labor union comprised of the country`s biggest companies, agreed to raise wages by 5.28%, the largest pay hike in   33 years.  Now, this is historic for Japanese workers in the country, because they haven`t seen their wages increase that much in comparison to the United   States, the U.K., Germany, other OECD countries, for example. It`s seen a lot of stagnant growth. Now, these two key components are what indicated to the Bank of Japan Governor Kazuo Ueda that it was finally time to end negative interest   rates, which will now set the economic agenda for the months to come in Japan.  Now, in terms of a stronger yen, though we did see the price of the yen fall today. Experts did tell me that we might see a stronger yen in the   months to come riding on the back of higher interest rates.  Now, if we do see that, it would mean input prices do go down. Now, this is hugely significant for the country because Japan is a resource-poor nation.   It imports more than 90% of its fuel, of its gas, and about 60% of its food. So input prices do go down, that means the cost of living in Japan   will also go down. Now, for foreign tourists, however, it might mean that their next vacation to the country is just a bit more expensive. But again, this is a gradual   change that we might be seeing many, many months in the future. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: All right. Spring officially sprung this week. But Mother Nature said not so fast warm weather. Many states, especially in the eastern part of   the country, experienced this dip in temperatures, making it feel like we were still full-throttle wintertime.  So if you or anyone you know were ready to leap into spring by maybe freshening up the garden, there might be some worry over how to protect   those precious flowers and veggies. Well, we`ve got you covered. Our meteorologist Elisa Raffa has some tips from some of the pros, some   seasoned farmers. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ELISA RAFFA, CNN METEOROLOGIST: We`re at that time of year where cold snaps can still happen, but things are blooming. Winter is our fastest warming   season. Spring winds up springing sooner. So that means that growing season in some places is as much as two to four weeks longer. So you might have to   protect those plants in the cold, just like these farmers. We`re at a strawberry farm where you can see the farmers here have covered these   strawberries with row covers to keep those strawberries protected from frost forming on their leaves. And the blankets also help trap some of that   heat.  Now, while you might not have acres and acres of strawberry farms at home, you can still use some of the same practices to protect your own plants.   You can use things like bedsheets, blankets, burlap, and cheesecloth all to protect your own flowers and vegetables in your garden. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia. Which of these iconic movies is based on a book?  Raiders of the Lost Ark, The Wizard of Oz, Singin` in the Rain, or Toy Story? If you said, The Wizard of Oz, you are correct. The book is actually called The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, and it`s written by American author L. Frank   Baum. The fairy tale published in the year 1900, nearly 40 years before the movie starring Judy Garland premiered.  Toto, we are not in Kansas anymore. Today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, takes us to Minnesota, where FBI agents closed the loop on a stolen   collector`s item that was from the set of MGM`s iconic 1939 movie, The Wizard of Oz. Remember those ruby red slippers that Dorothy clicks three times? Well, those shimmery shoes were swiped from their home, the Judy Garland Museum   in Grand Rapids, all the way back in 2005. The U.S. District Attorney`s Office of North Dakota says they were finally recovered during a sting   operation in 2018, but the item`s owner, collector Michael Shaw, wasn`t reunited with the shoes until now. When Shaw finally saw the shoes, he   compared it to a reunion with a long-lost friend. They`re one of only four pairs known to be left from the historic film set, and the North Dakota   D.A. estimates these slippers are worth around 3.5 million bucks.  All right, superstars, we`re at the end of The Yellow Brick Road, the end of the show, but it is time to recognize some of you. First, we want to pay   some homage to the concept of think it, see it, and believe it if you want to achieve it. Every day dating back weeks and weeks and weeks, Mr.   Bartosh`s Social Studies class in Stewartville, Minnesota, wrote that on March 21st, they would get a shout out, and their persistence has   manifested their destiny. Stewartville Middle School, rise up. And thank you for your dedication to CNN10. My team loves your passion.  And this shout out goes to my firebird friends at Chaparral High School in Scottsdale, Arizona. Keep blazing that trail and flying high. Maybe I`ll   see you when I`m out there during the final four. Oh, yeah. See you tomorrow, everyone. Let`s finish this week strong. END 

Date: 2024-03-22
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, and welcome to CNN 10, where I tell you the what, letting you decide what to think. I`m Coy Wire. Happy Friyay.  And I say, what`s up, sunshine, because sunshine is the topic of our first story of the day. In just over two weeks, on Monday, April 8th, many of us   will witness a celestial phenomenon, a total solar eclipse. That`s when the moon`s shadow completely blocks out the sun. Not everyone will be able to see it. It depends on where you live, but even if you don`t see the total eclipse, you will probably see a partial   eclipse. The last time a total solar eclipse happened in the U.S. was 2017, but back then only 12 million people lived in the direct path of the   eclipse. This time, you`ve got a much better chance to see it. More than 31 million Americans live in the so-called path of totality.  So it`s time to start planning. Check out this NASA map. Are you in the direct path? If you are, and you plan on peeking up at it, you`ll need to   get special eclipse glasses. You can`t view the eclipse without them, no normal sunglasses, or you can seriously damage your eyes, potentially   permanently.  Now, if you`re really hoping to see it, don`t miss it, because there won`t be another total solar eclipse in the U.S. for another 20 years. For more,   check out this report we prepped for you earlier this week. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  A total solar eclipse, it happens when the moon passes between the Earth and the sun, completely blocking out the light. On April 8th, more   than 32 million people across Mexico, the United States, and Canada could see the sun completely darkened by the moon`s shadow. And that moment of total darkness could last more than four minutes in some places. It`s also going to be the last one for quite some time. A total   solar eclipse won`t happen again in the United States for another 20 years. Location is key. The total eclipse is only visible inside a very narrow track, known as the path of totality. It stretches more than 10 U.S. states   from Texas through Maine, and the timing changes depending on where you are within that path.  People outside that narrow band will still be able to see a partial solar eclipse. That`s when the moon only blocks part of the sun`s face. That   should be visible in all 48 contiguous U.S. states.  Now if you`re planning on peeking at a total or partial eclipse, remember to get you some certified eclipse glasses, regular sunglasses not strong   enough to protect your eyes, otherwise severe eye damage can occur. A solar retina burn can permanently injure your eyes, and you might not even feel   it until it`s too late.  (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  During the month of March, Women`s History Month, we`ve been highlighting some seminal women who`ve transformed the world in profound   ways, and sometimes making a difference can feel like trying to move a mountain. But one climber from Japan let nothing get in her way. Not even the world`s tallest mountain, Junko Tabei, became the first woman ever to climb Mount   Everest in 1975. She reached the 29,000-foot summit at age 35, standing at 4 feet 9 inches tall. This trek, located in the Himalayan mountain range on the border between Nepal and Tibet, is notoriously dangerous. Adventurestats.com finds that   fewer than 30% of Mount Everest climbers were successful between the years 1922 and 2006. Junko Tabei not only successfully scaled Everest, she even   conquered what`s known as the Seven Summits, becoming the first woman to ascend the highest mountains on all seven continents. Even when she was diagnosed with cancer, the mountaineer continued to climb, taking a group of high school students up Mount Fuji when she was in   her 70s. Tabei passed away at the age of 77 at a hospital near Tokyo in 2016.  Next up, do you see her? She`s sitting right up there in the front. That`s Katharine Graham. As the leader of the "Washington Post" through most of   the 1960s and 70s, she was used to operating in a male-dominated world. Graham was one of the first female publishers of a U.S. newspaper and the   first ever female CEO of a Fortune 500 company.  And she was a strong leader. She twice defied warnings from the U.S. government, first publishing the Pentagon Papers, which were leaked   documents that exposed the reality of the Vietnam War.  Later, she stood by her famed reporters Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein. They broke the Watergate scandal, which led to the resignation of President   Richard Nixon. Fearless, bold. Katharine Graham passed away back in 2001. She was 84 years old.  Pop quiz, hot shot. What sport are you playing if the fly-half just faked a pass to the dummy runner? Soccer, lacrosse, rugby or cricket.  The fly-half in rugby is the most influential player on the pitch and usually wears the number 10, did you know.  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a superstar athlete leaving his sport in his prime to chase a dream and inspire others. Life is short. And 23-  year-old Louis Rees-Zammit knows it. He`s a rock star rugby player for Wales and his club Gloucester. But he`s always dreamed of playing in the   NFL. So he is going for it. I caught up with Louis and he says he has no fear as he pursues his purpose.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, Louis, a lifelong rugby star. You`re leaving your sport at the top of your game. What in the world are you thinking? LOUIS REES-ZAMMIT, FORMER WELSH RUGBY STAR, NFL HOPEFUL:  It`s a good question. It`s a good question to start. You know, I fancy a new challenge.   And what a better challenge to be in the NFL. I mean, you know, I`ve been training really hard for several weeks now. And, you know, I think I`m in -  - I`m in a good position. I feel smooth. I feel comfortable. And, you know, I`m ready to show everyone what I`m capable of. WIRE:  Tell me about dad. I understand he had a big influence over your decision to pursue this new passion. REES-ZAMMIT:  Yeah. So my dad as a teenager in the U.K., he always played American football. It was pretty tough for him back then to get over to the   States and go to college and try and go through that system. So, you know, I kind of want to continue his legacy and go beyond and, you know, inspire a lot of people back home to be able to make this change and,   you know, have the confidence to do it as well. WIRE:  You get the tough part because I play defense. I got to hit people and tackle people. You`re the one that everyone`s trying to hit and tackle.   Are you ready for this? REES-ZAMMIT:  Yeah. I mean, you know, in rugby, you`ve got to do -- you`ve got to play both sides. So, you know, I`m used to having to tackle. I`m   used to getting hit. So, you know, I know special teams are going to be massive for me as well. So being able to have the ability to, you know, go   downfield on punt and hit someone, but also play an offense and be a receiver, you know, slash running back would be a dream come true. WIRE:  What type of advantages do you think you might have having played and trained for rugby? REES-ZAMMIT:  Being able to, you know, identify spaces in defense. You know, there`s obviously 14 players in a line and then one in behind in   rugby. So being able to, you know, maneuver myself in between defenders, you know, see holes, see gaps. And then ultimately when I get the ball out wide, I have a one-on-one and be able to finish. And that was my -- I`d say that was the best, my best   attribute in rugby, being able to finish. And yeah, I`m excited to bring all my attributes into the NFL. It`s not about a location. It`s not about the money. I think it`s about having a plan for me. You know, I want to be on a team that has a plan.   And, you know, I know, they know, we go through a good plan that knows where I`m going to go in the future. And, you know, I`m just excited to be   able to show people on the 20th what I can do. And, you know, hopefully I can get teams interested. WIRE:  I did read that you`re a fan of warm weather. So for you, I shall hope that you don`t go to Green Bay or Buffalo. REES-ZAMMIT:  Yeah, yeah. I mean, I`ll take a lot of places. So, yeah, I`m just excited for this journey to see what happens. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  We hope any of you out there who are looking up at that mountaintop wondering if you`ll ever get there or if you should even try that Louis`   journey might inspire you to go for it.  All right, time to shine our light on some of you superstars. First up, shout out to the talented Hawks at Hopkins Middle School in Fremont,   California. Thanks for flying high with us.  And last but certainly not least, the Bulldogs at Rossford High School in Rossford, Ohio. Let me hear your big dog bark. Go on out and make it an   awesome day today and keep shining everywhere you go. You never know who or how, but you might be exactly what someone needs someday. You are more   powerful than you know. See you Monday. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2024-03-25
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, and welcome to CNN 10. I`m Coy, happy to be here to help fuel your mind. Hope you had an awesome weekend. Maybe you   caught some of the March Madness college hoops action. I`ll be in Glendale, Arizona soon for the final four.  This is the last week of March already, so let`s keep it rolling. Our lead story of the day, unfortunately, tragic news out of Russia over the   weekend. The country is observing a national day of mourning as more than 130 people died and even more were injured after a terror attack at a   concert hall near Moscow on Friday.  Gunmen targeted concert goers and later set the popular concert venue Crocus City Hall on fire. ISIS claimed responsibility for this horrific   attack. According to Russian State Media TASS, four suspects that were part of the attack were captured in the Bryansk Region, which is one of the   regions that borders Ukraine. They were taken into custody and sent to Russia`s investigative committee. Russian State Media also reported that the suspects who were captured are considered as foreign citizens. Russian President Vladimir Putin addressed   the nation and said the suspects were trying to escape to Ukraine. And Putin placed blame on Ukraine for taking some part in the terror attack.   Ukraine vehemently denies any link to the attack. U.S. officials said they had warned Russia about the threat of ISIS attacking inside the country. Earlier in the month, the U.S. embassy in   Russia said they were monitoring reports of extremists with, quote, "imminent plans to target large crowds in Moscow."  Leaders from around the world have expressed their condolences on the attack as this is considered the deadliest attack inside Russia in more   than 20 years. We`ll continue to keep an eye on this developing story as this investigation continues.  Next up, have you ever heard the term e-waste? What is it? E-waste can be discarded cell phones, laptops or really any other type of tech device that   gets thrown away. And according to recent data reports, the amount of electronic waste is reaching staggering heights, so much so that the   capacity for recycling simply isn`t enough. There`s growing concern over the potential environmental issues that might be caused if we don`t find a   sufficient way to combat these growing piles of e-waste. Many discarded electronics have been sent to developing countries in Africa where they are being dismantled and parts of them are reused. Our Kim   Brunhuber shows us what it`s like in Ghana as they try to get this boom of e-waste under control. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KIM BRUNHUBER, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: These men in Ghana are rummaging through discarded electronics. Using screwdrivers and pliers, they break   down computers and cell phones for any parts they can salvage. But this is just one electronic wasteland. An alarming new U.N. report says that since 2010, the amount of global e- waste has grown five times faster than it can be collected and recycled. According to the study, a record 62 million metric tons of e-waste was   produced in 2022. That`s an increase of 82% from 2010. And the world is on track to generate a whopping 82 million tons of e-waste in 2030. What`s more, e-waste recycling only produces 1% of the rare earth   elements needed to meet the current demand, which leaves the world highly dependent on just a few countries where rare earths are mined, including   countries in Africa.  The continent generates the lowest amount of e-waste, but recycling rates there are below 1%. A high-level official with the International   Telecommunication Union says it`s up to the manufacturers to make a difference by giving devices a longer life cycle. While some countries have   implemented environmental regulations to tackle the problem, some are working on a more grassroots level. Places like the Fixing Factory in   London are teaching consumers to make more sustainable choices. DERMOT JONES, PROJECT MANAGER, CAMDEN FIXING FACTORY: We buy these things, and the first time they fail, we don`t get them fixed. And we`re trying to   change that mindset. So when it fails, just think that`s just a part of its life cycle. It`s not the end of it. How can we get that going? How can you   get it going a few more years? (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Ten second trivia. What is believed to be the most expensive object ever built?  Shanghai Tower, International Space Station, Notre Dame Cathedral, Hong Kong International Airport. At a total cost of more than $100 billion, the ISS holds the record for most expensive object in history.  We recently had the opportunity to speak with two astronauts who worked at the International Space Station, Dr. Peggy Whitson and John Shoffner. One   of their main aims now is to inspire the next generation of astronauts. Mr. Shoffner started the International Space Art and Poetry Contest, and you can enter. Submit your space-themed art or poetry at   spaceartcontest.com, and the lucky winners will see their masterpieces floating in space with astronauts. The submission deadline is April 5th, so   get those wheels turning. We`d love nothing more than to share the story of a CNN 10 artist or poet gone galactic.  Here`s part of our chat with Dr. Whitson and Mr. Shoffner.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: What is it like working in the International Space Station? PEGGY WHITSON, ASTRONAUT, DIRECTOR OF HUMAN SPACE FLIGHT, AXIOM SPACE: It`s one of my favorite places. I love to go back all the time. It`s a really   cool laboratory and space. It`s such a privilege to be able to work there and conduct research there. JOHN SHOFFNER, ASTRONAUT, PILOT, AXIOM SPACE: It`s a cool thing. It`s like working in an office building. You`ll pass someone in the hallway, and then   you`ll go to where you`re working, and you just work. And then you`ll leave, and then you`ll pass somebody else going in. But everybody`s doing   their thing. It was very comfortable. WHITSON: And it`s really cool because you`re floating. SHOFFNER: Will you fly over there and get me a battery? And say, OK, I`ll be right back. WIRE: Peggy, do you think it`s important to inspire a next generation of astronauts? WHITSON: I absolutely do. Both John and I were inspired by the Apollo-era astronauts. And I think what`s important about space now is it`s really   changing dramatically. You know, with more and more commercial companies out there now, there`s just going to be so many avenues to get into space. WIRE: The International Space Art and Poetry Contest, what was the impetus for this? SHOFFNER: In the Fourth Grade, I painted a picture of astronaut Ed White. He walked in space in that year, 1965. I just know there are other 10-year-  olds out there today dreaming about space like I did. So let`s give them a chance. We should have this thing where they can draw something, and we`ll   show it in space. So that was the beginning of it. WIRE: Tell me about some of the parameters and some of the requirements for this contest. SHOFFNER: We want original line art and/or poetry. And it`s about that question, what does it look like to live in space? So we have three student   categories, 5 to 8, 9 to 13, and 14 to 18. Plus a teacher`s category. The other teachers can join in this year. Make it competitive. Go through the website, SpaceArtContest.com. All the rules are there and how to do it. It`s real simple. You just upload it. Everyone should just   get in and let their imagination soar. It`s going to be beautiful. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a doggone undisciplined dog named Buster, who got busted for doing belly flops in the family pool again   and again and again. The Florida family swears that he`s an otherwise obedient good boy, but this fur baby Buster just seems to have a serious   weakness for pool time. Our Jeanne Moos has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JENNIFER HENRY, BUSTER`S OWNER: Come here. JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Buster has made a splash on   the Internet.  HENRY: Buster! Come here. Come here. MOOS: With his lovable disobedience. HENRY: Come here. Come here. MOOS: A Florida resident who can`t seem to leave the pool.  HENRY: Be a good boy for once in your life. MOOS: Buster is only a bad dog when it comes to the pool? HENRY: He`s not a rambunctious, crazy dog, except for whenever he wants to get in the pool. MOOS: Jennifer Henry posted 10 feudal efforts. HENRY: Hey, are you ready to come in? MOOS: To get Buster out of the pool so she and her husband could make it to a dinner reservation. HENRY: Hey, this was my towel. Don`t you dare, Buster. MOOS: But hey, at least he tends to bring the towel back out of the pool. It was only when her husband used his I mean business voice.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Let`s go, come on. MOOS: That Buster and their 14-year-old dog Scooby headed for the house, though Buster contemplated taking one more dip.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No sir, Buster. Get over here now. MOOS: You`ll notice both dogs disobey. HENRY: Come here. Come here.  MOOS: But only Buster gets busted. HENRY: He`s the instigator. Scooby does not get in unless Buster gets in first. MOOS: Jennifer has used a net to try and retrieve the retriever. When she`s really serious, she uses his full name. Buster. Buster Henry. Buster. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Buster`s not being a good boy, but he`s a good buoy floating around like that, "pawfection."  Time to show some love now. How about Harrisonville Middle School in Harrisonville, Missouri. Thank you for subscribing to our CNN 10 YouTube   channel. We appreciate you. And this shout-out goes to the School of Astronaut John Shoffner, who we just introduced you to during the show. Middlesboro Independent Schools in   Kentucky, shout-out to you. And we love hearing that you`re building a STEM lab and curriculum with the help of Mr. Shoffner`s donations and newly   launched foundation, Rise Up.  Go on and submit that space-themed art and poetry. Shoot for the stars. We will be back with you tomorrow. I`m Coy, and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-03-26
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, and welcome to CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news. I`m Coy. I`ve got a full show for you today. But first, I`m   curious, how many of you out there have an iPhone? Did you know that more than 2 billion have been sold since the first iPhone was released? Apple has a solid grip on more than 20% of the worldwide   smartphone market. But just like the good old board game Monopoly, when someone collects a ton of the game pieces, it`s tough to go unnoticed. And the Department of Justice is definitely taking notice of Apple and its business practices. The DOJ filed a lawsuit last week alongside more than a   dozen states against the tech giant. They`re accusing the company of illegally monopolizing the smartphone market and violating federal   antitrust laws. CNN`s Brian Todd breaks down this case for us with a look at the iconic brand`s unique strategies which may be weeding out its competitors. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It`s one of the most iconic, powerful brands in the world. Now worth more than $2.5 trillion. It`s sold   more than a billion iPhones worldwide. And Apple`s ability to maintain that hold on the marketplace has put it squarely in the crosshairs of the U.S. Justice Department. Today, Justice   filing a sweeping antitrust lawsuit against Apple, accusing the tech giant of illegally monopolizing the smartphone market. MERRICK GARLAND, U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL: For consumers, that has meant fewer choices, higher prices and fees, lower quality smartphones, apps and   accessories, and less innovation from Apple and its competitors. TODD (voice-over): At the heart of the antitrust suit, the allegation that Apple has set up its own closed ecosystem that limits Apple users to only   using Apple products. That`s also known as the walled garden. At the center of the walled garden, the iPhone. TRIPP MICKLE, TECHNOLOGY REPORTER, NEW YORK TIMES: And that`s really, you know, the centerpiece of Apple`s empire. It`s what has made it such a   dominant company for so long. TODD (voice-over): One example of unfair practices alleged by the Justice Department, that Apple degrades the text that iPhones receive from Android   phones. Those green texts iPhones get from non-iPhones. BRIAN FUNG, CNN TECHNOLOGY REPORTER: The Justice Department says that messages that are sent between iPhones are more secure because they`re   encrypted. But when you`re messaging with a non-iPhone user, that those messages are not encrypted and thus less secure. TODD: Also a difference in picture quality. A picture sent from an Android to an iPhone could be of lesser quality. FUNG: Yeah, according to the Justice Department, when those messages or images get exchanged, the quality is less, you know, images might look   grainier, videos might look grainier. TODD (voice-over): Another example of what the Justice Department calls Apple`s, quote, "exclusionary conduct". These days, good luck trying to use   anything but Apple Pay if you`re using your phone at the checkout counter. GARLAND: Apple has blocked third-party developers from creating competing digital wallets on the iPhone. They use what is known as tap-to-pay   functionality. TODD (voice-over): And Justice says Apple watches only work well with iPhones, forcing owners to buy nothing but Apple phones. The Justice   Department says unlocking more competition for Apple products will lead to more innovation and lower prices for consumers. FUNG: On the other hand, Apple says, look, if the Justice Department gets its way, then that effectively makes Apple devices much more like Android   devices, and consumers don`t want that. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Our next story takes us to Hong Kong, a unique city with a complex history, which I`ll try to sum up quickly, but I encourage you to take a   look at this history yourself to better understand the situation happening today.  Hong Kong was once controlled by the British Empire, but the city was handed over to China in 1997 under a plan known as One Country, Two   Systems. This idea basically said Hong Kong would join communist China, but maintain its established capitalist economic system and democratic   political system. But in recent years, that has started to change, and pretty dramatically. In 2020, China`s central government passed a sweeping national security law   following mass pro-democracy protests. That law dramatically broadened the power that China`s communist ruling party had over the territory. Just last week, Hong Kong`s legislature passed another sweeping law detailing 39 new national security crimes. Our Kristie Lu Stout is here to   break it all down for us. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Article 23 is Hong Kong`s controversial new homegrown security legislation. It includes a range of   new national security crimes, including treason, espionage, external interference and disclosure of state secrets.  LU STOUT (voice-over): It carries sentences of 10 years for crimes linked to state secrets and sedition, 20 years for espionage and up to life in   prison for treason, insurrection, sabotage and mutiny. Officials point out that many Western countries have similar legislation and say it will fill loopholes in the sweeping national security law   imposed by Beijing in 2020 after mass anti-government protests. JOHN LEE, HONG KONG CHIEF EXECUTIVE: We still have to watch out for potential sabotage, undercurrents that try to create troubles. LU STOUT (voice-over): In 2020 article 23 was shelved after an attempt to enact it drew half a million residents onto the streets in protest. No such   scenes of opposition are expected this time around. Beijing`s national security crackdown has transformed Hong Kong. Dozens of political opponents have been arrested, civil society groups disbanded and   outspoken media outlets shut down. Former opposition lawmaker Emily Lau was among the protesters in 2003. She`s no longer marching but has a message   for Beijing. EMILY LAU, FORMER OPPOSITION LAWMAKER: I just want to tell Beijing there`s no need for such stern treatment. I don`t think Hong Kong will go back to   the turbulent past and I think people want to look forward to a safe and peaceful and free future. We want Hong Kong to prosper. We are part of   China. I`ve never disputed that but we are different from the rest of China but the difference is getting less and less which is very sad.  LU STOUT (voice-over): Critics say the law could have deep ramifications for the city status as a global business hub. The U.S. State Department   says it is concerned by the quote, "Broad and vague definitions of state secrets and external interference that could be used to eliminate dissent   through the fear of arrest and detention." The Hong Kong government rejects that criticism as biased and misleading with Security Secretary Chris Tang pointing out there is strong public   support. CHRIS TANG, HONG KONG SECRETARY OF SECURITY (through translation): We received 98.6 percent support and positive feedback. LU STOUT (voice-over): But on the streets -- UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translated text): I don`t want to answer. LU STOUT (voice-over): -- it`s hard to tell. UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translation): We won`t discuss things, very sensitive. LU STOUT: Article 23. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz hotshot. Why is Paris originally known as the City of Light?  Architecture, romance, education, or lantern? If your answer is lanterns, keep shining bright. In an effort to reduce crime rates back in the 1600s, King Louis XIV ordered nearly 3,000 street   lanterns to be illuminated in the streets of Paris, giving it the title City of Light.  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, takes us to the City of Light, Paris, where we`re illuminating an unusual race, where hundreds of Parisian   restaurant waiters dash around corners and over cobblestones, all while holding trays loaded with items that they cannot drop. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is no ordinary race. In fact, there`s no running allowed. The 1.2-mile competition across Paris is exclusively for the   city`s waiters, according to Reuters. And there are a few more rules. You must carry a tray holding a croissant, a cup of coffee and a glass of water   for the whole route. Absolutely no water can be spilled, and you can only hold the tray with one hand. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translation): I`m not expecting to come first because my cardio isn`t the best, but I`m hoping at least that my tray is   in good condition when I get to the finish line.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Some 200 waiters took part in the historic race, which was first held in 1914. But this is the first time the event has taken   place since 2011, because of a lack of funding. So what`s the secret to winning? SAMY LAMROUS, MEN`S WINNER (through translation): It`s stamina.  PAULINE VAN WYMEERSCH, WOMEN`S WINNER (through translation): Yes, stamina, yes. You feel it at the end. But in our line of work, we do this for 10 to   12 hours. We have the stamina. We know how to hold the tray. So there you go. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: All right, we are running out of time here, but we can`t leave without some special recognition and shout-outs. We are sending a shout-out   to the Bulldogs at Chamblee Middle School in Chamblee, Georgia. Rise up. We see you and we appreciate you. Also, shout-out to Ralston High School in Omaha, Nebraska. Go Rams!  Remember, tomorrow is #YourWordWednesday. Follow me @coywire on Instagram, Snapchat, TikTok. Put your unique vocabulary word in the comments section   of my most recent post, with the definition, your school, teacher, mascot, if you`d like. And we`re going to choose a winner to work into tomorrow`s   show. I`m Coy, I`ll see you tomorrow. END 

Date: 2024-03-27
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, and wonderful Wednesday to you. Welcome to CNN 10, your CNN 10, especially on Your Word Wednesday. I`m Coy, looking   forward to delivering one of the vocabulary words you submitted on my social accounts to help write today`s show and make us smarter. Let`s get started, shall we? Now, we do begin with some difficult news today out of Baltimore, where tragedy struck in the very early hours of   Tuesday morning when a container ship traveling down the Patapsco River crashed into a four-lane bridge. The shocking collapse rattled the city,   igniting an active search and rescue by the Baltimore City Fire Department. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DONALD HEINBUCH, FORMER CHIEF OF OPERATIONS, BALTIMORE CITY FIRE: We were awakened with what appeared to be an earthquake. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: A shocking tragedy early Tuesday, a ship colliding with Baltimore`s Francis Scott Key Bridge causing it to collapse into the   Patapsco River. The video showing the ship`s lights flickering twice before veering off course and crashing. MAYOR BRANDON SCOTT, (D) BALTIMORE: Everyone, this is an unthinkable tragedy. We have to first and foremost pray for all of those who are   impacted. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Rescue operations immediately underway. JAMES WALLACE, CHIEF, BALTIMORE CITY FIRE DEPARTMENT: We are still very much in an active search and rescue posture at this point, and we will   continue to be for some time. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The local community stunned by the scene. MICHAEL BROWN, BALTIMORE RESIDENT: So, I came down just to see, and I can`t believe it.  SCOTT LAUMANN, BALTIMORE RESIDENT: And then I`ve seen a picture of it, and I was like, oh, my God, you got to be kidding me. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: As of the time of the recording of today`s show, a few people have been rescued from Baltimore`s Patapsco River, but that information could   change, as officials are still active in the search and rescue effort. We`ll keep you up to date with the latest on the next episode of CNN 10,   but as Maryland`s Governor Wes Moore reminds us, whenever we cover a disaster like this, it`s important not to lose sight of the people whose   lives have been changed forever. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) GOV. WES MOORE, (D) MARYLAND: I recognize that many of us are hurting right now. I recognize that many of us are scared right now. To the victims of   this tragedy and their loved ones, all of our hearts are broken. We feel your loss. We`re thinking of you, and we will always be thinking of you.  Our administration is working closely with leaders from all levels of government and society to respond to this crisis, and not but just by   addressing the immediate aftermath, but also by building a state that is more resilient and a state that`s more safe. That is our pledge, and that`s   our commitment. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: The U.N. Security Council passed a resolution on Monday which called for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza for the remaining days of the holy month   of Ramadan, as well as the unconditional release of hostages and providing more aid into Gaza.  Now, the U.S. abstained from the vote which allowed this measure to pass. Washington`s choice of abstaining the vote instead of vetoing it frustrated   Israel`s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, so much so, in fact, that Israeli advisers canceled a planned trip to Washington exposing the growing   tensions between the U.S. and Israel. Our Jeremy Diamond explains Israel`s acerbic response. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, hours before they were set to depart for Washington, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu canceling   a trip by two of his closest advisers to Washington to discuss U.S. alternatives to an Israeli ground offensive in Rafah.  The Israeli Prime Minister stated reason is the U.S. choosing to abstain rather than veto a U.N. Security Council resolution, even though this   resolution calls for both an immediate ceasefire and the release of all Israeli hostages. The Israeli Prime Minister said that it did not condition   that ceasefire on the release of those hostages. And in a statement, the Israeli Prime Minister`s office arguing that this marks a change in the U.S.`s position as it relates to these resolutions   before the U.N. Security Council, calling it a, quote, "clear retreat from the consistent position of the United States," arguing in the same   statement that the U.S.` decision to abstain hurts, quote, "both the war effort and the effort to release the hostages." JOHN KIRBY, COUNCIL COORDINATOR FOR STRATEGIC COMMUNICATION: We`re kind of perplexed by this. It does not represent a change at all in our policy.   It`s very consistent with everything that we`ve been saying we want to get done here. And we get to decide what our policy is. The Prime Minister`s   office seems to be indicating through public statements that we somehow changed here. We haven`t. DIAMOND: This is obviously the latest escalation in tensions between the Israeli Prime Minister and U.S. President Joe Biden. We have watched over   the course of the last several weeks as the U.S.` criticism of Israel`s handling of the war in Gaza has been rising. And the Israeli Prime Minister   has been defensive as a result. And so this decision to cancel this delegation was clearly aimed at making a statement both to the United States, but also, of course, to a domestic   political audience in Israel.  Now, all of this coming as there are still ongoing discussions to try and reach a ceasefire agreement and the release of dozens of Israeli hostages.   Over the weekend, Israel agreeing to a U.S. proposal that was trying to bridge the gap between Israel and Hamas` positions on the ratio of   Palestinian prisoners to be released in exchange for some 40 Israeli hostages.  Israel agreeing to release some 700 Palestinian prisoners, including dozens of whom are serving life sentences. But it`s clear that more issues still   remain. And Hamas in a statement on Monday evening indicating that it is not budging from its previous positions, making clear that it still wants   to see the withdrawal of Israeli troops from the Gaza Strip and allowing displaced Palestinians to be able to return to their homes in northern   Gaza. So, clearly, despite the fact that there has been progress, that there has been momentum over the course of the last week or so, major issues still   remaining between these two sides and very unclear whether or not a deal can soon be reached. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia. Which of these South American countries has coastlines along both the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans?  Colombia, Venezuela, Bolivia, Brazil. If you said Colombia, put your hands up. Colombia is one of the most biodiverse countries in the world, with a coastline that touches both the   Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean Sea, which is part of the Atlantic Ocean.  All right, for today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, have you ever thought about how domestic work and caregiving, so often they`re automatically   associated with women? Cooking, cleaning, taking care of the kids. Well, one country is working to untangle gender from housework and bring a little   more balance back into the home. Our Stefano Pozzebon takes us to Colombia`s capital city of Bogota, where a group of men are attending a school to learn how to be better caretakers. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) STEFANO POZZEBON, CNN REPORTER (voice-over): Open, clean, moisturize, close it and they`re all set. It sounds simple, but the impact can be massive. This is what a care school for men looks like. And more than just learning how to change diapers, this is a place where Colombian men can learn how to   be better husbands, fathers, and sons. JUAN CORTES, LEADER, HOMBRES AL CUIDADO PROJECT (through translation): We can all say it at the same time, first thing we are told is that men don`t   cry. POZZEBON: And that includes, for example, learning how to tie a ponytail. CORTES (through translation): Combing hair is not just combing hair. It`s about the emotional connection that you create. Investing in men learning   about care will allow us to assume this responsibility at home and yet I don`t lose masculinity. POZZEBON: That care, something Colombian men just like these didn`t really know how to give. During the pandemic lockdowns, many looks for help as   they were unable to look after their families. Domestic violence reports in the country also soaring. (On camera): Colombian women are disproportionately in charge of household chores and of raising children. And projects like these are already having   an impact. (Voice-over): According to research from Bogota City Hall shared exclusively with CNN, men who said they were entirely responsible for   household chores roughly doubled since the project was launched in 2021. The transition from classroom to the real world is fast. Harold Pardo is a father of four, and he is the one in charge of the school run. HAROLD PARDO, COLOMBIAN FATHER (through translation): Have you got homework to do? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translation): Yes I do, in English. POZZEBON: That is change. Like many Colombians, growing up, Harold was not as close to his father as he is now to his children. But, it`s not all family care for Pardo. He is studying to work in healthcare administration. And once a week, he and his friends gather for a   retrial of Latin American manliness. But, even here, the tables are turning. Soon enough, Pardo says, they could be gathering for playdates and changing diapers. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: All right. We want to give our congratulations to Mrs. Marchankevich`s (ph) class in Annapolis Middle School in Annapolis,   Maryland, for submitting today`s Your Word Wednesday winner, acerbic, meaning sharp and forthright. Congrats. And thank you for expanding our   vocabulary today.  And now it`s time to give an acerbic shout out. We are showing some love to Ben Franklin Middle School in Fargo, North Dakota. Rise up. Thank you for   spending part of your days with us.  And this shout out goes to Sheridan Junior High School in Sheridan, Wyoming. Go Broncos. Have an awesome day, everyone. And we`ll see you right   back here tomorrow. END 

Date: 2024-03-28
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up, sunshine? It`s time to shine. Welcome to Thursday. Happy Friday Eve. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. And today we are going to start about news about WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange. The Australian citizen rocketed into public notoriety as a   political refugee fighting to escape extradition back to America.  Assange faces charges of espionage after publishing classified U.S. military materials starting in 2010. The WikiLeaks founder previously   described his findings to CNN as, quote, "compelling evidence of war crimes," unquote, committed by a U.S.-led coalition in Iraqi government   forces.  But U.S. officials say Assange put lives at risk by publishing those secret military documents. Free speech advocates, though, argue extraditing   Assange could cause a chilling effect in the press. The controversial figure has remained in London`s Belmarsh prison for five years and was confined as a political refugee in the Ecuadorian embassy in   the British capital for seven years before that. U.K. courts say they could agree to turn Assange over to the U.S. if certain protections and   assurances are put into place. CNN`s Nada Bashir breaks down the latest updates on Assange`s case. But we want you to think about this story. And   as you hear it, what do you think? Is Julian Assange a journalist, a criminal, a refugee, or a hero, as some feel? It`s a controversial question that has created sharp divisions around the world. So as you listen and discuss amongst each other, remember to be   respectful and focus on the facts. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Now the high court in London on Tuesday ruled that the WikiLeaks founder cannot be immediately extradited to the United   States. Instead, American authorities must first offer assurances about his treatment including over his First Amendment rights and protection from the   death penalty. Now, they`ve been given three weeks to do so. If the U.S. fails to give these assurances, Assange would be allowed to appeal his extradition at a   further hearing in May. If however, the U.S. does provide the requested assurances, there will be a further hearing to decide if those assurances are satisfactory and to make   a final decision on leave to appeal. Now, in the event that the appeal is denied, Assange`s legal team has also vowed to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights which could also halt   his removal to the U.S. This is a battle which Assange has fought for the last five years from London`s Belmarsh prison. And of course, for seven years before that, while   being holed up as a political refugee at the Ecuadorian embassy in London. He is of course, being pursued by the U.S. authorities for what they say is the endangerment of lives by publishing confidential military records   supplied by former army intelligence analyst, Chelsea Manning in 2010 and 2011. Speaking outside the high court, Assange`s wife, Stella described her husband as a political prisoner and also called on the Biden administration   to drop the case entirely. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Next, let`s turn to Port-au-Prince, the capital of Haiti, where city streets remain a battleground between gangs and national police. Conditions   in Haiti continue to deteriorate, with civilians fleeing the ongoing gang violence and political instability. A series of chartered flights have   returned some American citizens back to the states, but not everyone who`s in danger can just get up and leave. CNN`s David Culver reveals what U.S. and other international citizens face as they try to make their way out of the country. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DAVID CULVER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The challenge for U.S. citizens trying to leave Port-au-Prince begins as soon as they start driving to the U.S.   embassy. Getting there involves driving through either gang-controlled or gang-contested territories. It`s dangerous and it`s unpredictable. In armored vehicles, we saw that firsthand, and yet this is the only way out for some. The airport is shut down and many feel trapped. In recent days, the U.S. embassy began evacuating citizens who could make it to the embassy. Managing the safety of those evacuations is regional   security officer, Steve Strickland. How does Haiti, how does Port-au-Prince today compare to your past 19 years? STEVE STRICKLAND, U.S. DIPLOMATIC SECURITY SERVICE, SUPERVISORY SPECIAL AGENT: There is nothing like Port-au-Prince. The security situations here   are nothing like anything I have experienced before. I`ve spent time in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq, in Africa, and the unique circumstances here,   I`ve not seen a parallel to those in any other security environment that I`ve served. CULVER: Amid these challenges, there are some who fear Americans are being abandoned in this gang field war zone. STRICKLAND: The truth of the matter is, literally on a daily basis, there are phone calls that we are engaged with at the highest levels of U.S.   government, where the number one topic is safety and security. How do we help get our U.S. citizens out of the country to a safe place? CULVER: Launching these evacuation flights from the capital is a critical first step. Jenny Gilliam (ph) and her five-year-old son, Conrad registered a few days ago. She has had to leave behind her mom and other loved ones so as to get   back to their home in New York. Getting to the embassy is terrifying. It is a potentially deadly commute. Some who had confirmed their spots canceled last-minute either emotionally   unable to leave behind loved ones or just unable to get to the embassy safely. So is there an option to go from here and go pick them up? Is that even in reality? STRICKLAND: It just really isn`t unfortunately. The security resources that we have are stretched so thin, the ability to do that is really a non-  starter. We just don`t have that capacity to do it. We`d love to do it. It is just simply an impossibility, unfortunately. CULVER: With some seats unclaimed at the last minute, our team as U.S. citizens is able to travel out with them and chronicle their journey. We board in gang-controlled territory on a patch of land that`s secured and surrounded by a robust and reassuring American military presence. We take   off for the Dominican Republic. There are a lot of mixed emotions for those who get out: Gratitude and relief for getting here safely, as well as guilt and fear for those still   in Port-au-Prince, knowing that what is happening on the other side of this border is getting worse with each passing hour. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz, hot shot. How long did it originally take to build the Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris?  Around 10 years, around 50 years, nearly 100, nearly 200 years. If you said nearly 200 years, you are correct. Construction on the famous Parisian landmark began during the reign of King Louis VII in the year 1163   and was mostly completed by 1345.  Back in 2019, a raging fire torched the historic Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris. Many were in shock to see the Parisian landmark engulfed in flames   and feared that it would take decades to restore. Especially since this effort would be both intricate and expensive with estimates to rebuild the   cathedral costing more than $760 million.  But with generous donations from around the world and nearly 500 craftspeople working rigorously the past five years, the renovation is said   to be 90% complete.  Our Richard Quest gives us a peek inside as it`s expected to reopen to the public this December. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: A fire breaking out at the historic cathedral of Notre-Dame.  RICHARD QUEST, CNN ANCHOR, QUEST MEAN BUSINESS: More people come to Notre- Dame than the Eiffel Tower. You and I in our lifetime have seen projects like this taking 20 years. What percentage of completion do you think you   are at now? PHILIPPE JOST, PRESIDENT, REBUILDING NOTRE DAME: Well, I think we are at 85 or 90.  QUEST: Wow! JOST: We have finished the roofs, the spire. We have cleaned all the inside, all these woods. We have cleaned the paintings. It`s important that   we cannot identify what has been rebuilt because it`s the same stones and the same type of work, which is the respect we owe to the monument.  President Macron said we will do it in five years for 2024. And we are doing it. And we do it perfectly. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, strong. Something you have to see. The Louisiana High School Power Lifting State Championships, Senior   Dwayne Coleman representing Solomon, shattering the state high school record for squat. Moving 900 pounds. That`s about the weight of a full-  grown cow. Look at the bar bending and watch this. Coleman smooth with it. Then racking the weight and walking away like it was no big deal. That was a really big deal. Incredible stuff and   congratulations to Dwayne. That took a lot of determination and dedication.  All right. To all you powerful people, I hope this show lifted you up today. Let`s get a shout out to Plant City High School in Plant City,   Florida. Raiders, rise up. And let`s head all the way to Amman, Jordan to shout out Mrs. Gilbert`s class at the American Community School. We are so grateful, so happy that   you join us from so far away. Have an awesome day, everyone. Let`s do it again tomorrow. Same time, same place, shall we? We`ll finish this week strong.  I`m Coy and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-03-29
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, sunshine? Happy Friyay. Make that a good Friday. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. Let`s start today by talking about inflation. It`s an economic situation many countries have been confronting in recent years,   but we want to specifically focus on Turkey, where that country is witnessing particularly high inflation.  According to the Turkish Statistical Institute, annual Consumer Price Inflation, or CPI, soared to 67% last month compared to February of last   year. But there are unofficial estimates that believe inflation has skyrocketed to more than 100%. For some perspective, similar CPI numbers in the U.S. were right around 3% for February. The value of the Turkish currency, called the lira, is   falling, while gold and the U.S. dollar are now in high demand for Turkish market traders. All of this economic uncertainty comes as local elections   are set to take place this weekend, and many are concerned about how the government will fight this high inflation. Our Scott McLean is in the streets of Istanbul, where locals are struggling because of surging prices. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over):  The Ottoman arches and domes of Istanbul`s Grand Bazaar are a good reminder that   empires rise and fall. When it comes to the value of the Turkish Lira lately it only falls.  "Right now, our money is almost worthless," he says, "because people haven`t seen inflation fall. They don`t trust the Turkish lira anymore." But this ancient city never lost faith in a currency that`s endured through the ages. Gold, coins, bars, even tiny 1-gram chips. "People used to buy real estate or land," says this dealer. "But right now, because the interest rates are so high, they`d rather put money in the bank   or buy gold." (On camera):  The Turkish Central Bank has hiked the interest rate now to 45% in an effort to tame inflation, but so far, it hasn`t. The official   inflation rate is now 67% and unofficial estimates suggest it is much higher. (Voice over):  In January to help the poorest Turks cope, the government doubled the minimum wage from a year ago just ahead of the coming local   elections. But some economists believe that has only made inflation worse. KERIM ROTA, ECONOMIST:  In order to break that cycle, you have to do something. So we will see after the elections if the government is serious   about fighting inflation or not central bank increase the credit card rates last week is monthly 5%, monthly 5% means 80% on an annualized rate. And if   you add up the taxes is around 113%. MCLEAN:  Who can afford that? ROTA:  Nobody can afford that. MCLEAN (voice over):  Across the Bosphorus on Istanbul`s Asian side people are stocking up on Iftar essentials this Ramadan freshly baked P-day fish   and meat. Prices are crazy this year it`s too much, this woman says. You can say you`re young, you can work, but I do work and I still can`t make a living. And I have two jobs this man tells me. MCLEAN:  Do you keep your money in Turkish lira or do you keep it in America? MELEK ALKES, PRE-SCHOOL TEACHER:  I can`t keep anything. I can`t save. MCLEAN (voice over):  Pre-school teacher Melek Alkes also has credit card debt at sky high interest rates. MCLEAN:  How do you dig yourself out of that hole? ALKES:  You see, she`s asking for the money for bread. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Pop quiz hotshot. What nation launched the first woman into space?  Soviet Union, China, United States, or Germany? If you said the Soviet Union, you`re out of this world. Cosmonaut Valentina Tereshkova rocketed into the history books spending three days alone in   space in June of 1963.  Today, we continue our Women`s History Month journey recognizing just a few of the many remarkable female changemakers who have made a difference in   our world. And as March draws to a close, we turn our lens toward Dr. Peggy Whitson. This retired NASA astronaut has spent more time in space than any other   American. And she was the first woman to command the International Space Station. We sat down for an inspiring talk about chasing our dreams, shooting for the moon and walking among the stars.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  675 accumulated days in space, what went through your mind when you realized what was happening and tell me about that experience? PEGGY WHITSON, ASTRONAUT, DIRECTOR OF HUMAN SPACE FLIGHT, AXIOM:  Being in space is actually just really special. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And liftoff, Peggy Whitson rocketing towards the International Space Station. WHITSON:  It`s not like anything we experience here on the ground. There`s no gravity, you don`t sit in a chair, your papers don`t stay on the table.   It becomes a real adaptation to living in a completely different environment. WIRE:  Where did your dream begin to float among the stars? WHITSON:  When I was nine years old, I was watching the first lunar landing. Our Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin took those first steps on the   moon`s surface. And when I graduated high school, NASA picked the first female astronaut. And for me, that was like, hey, maybe this is real. Maybe I can -- it`s not just a dream. It`s going to be my goal to become an astronaut.  I applied to be an astronaut for 10 years. And every two years I got soundly rejected until that 10th year. WIRE:  What was it like for you in a male dominated world, male dominated field to have to find a way to carve a path for yourself? WHITSON:  There was definitely challenges. You know, when I first started working at NASA, I was, a lot of times the only female in a meeting, et   cetera. But I had some great role models. There were female astronauts out there. There were female leaders at NASA. It was really powerful for me to feel like I can do this, too. I just have   to be like these guys and be successful. So basically prove your skills. Remember, your path isn`t always a straight line. And learn from all those   stops along the way. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 aurora borealis volcano style. Videographers in the Icelandic town of Grindavik captured an   incredible time lapse of a volcano eruption happening at the same time as the Northern Lights. This celestial display known as the Northern Lights is   caused by a geomagnetic storm. So what causes these geomagnetic storms? Check it out. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  This time lapse video shows the eruption of a volcano in Iceland with the Northern Lights dancing in the background. The Northern   Lights are more visible than usual because of a geomagnetic storm which disrupted the Earth`s magnetic field. Such storms happen when strong surges   of solar winds called coronal mass ejections reach Earth. Side effects of increased solar activity are the auroras that dance around Earth`s poles. And the timing of this geomagnetic storm with an erupting   volcano in Iceland puts nature on full display. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  All right, we want to put some of you on full display. Hey, Sparkman Middle School, how y`all doing in Toney, Alabama? Go Cougars. And Mrs. Bolin (ph), can we just say thank you to you and all of your pulchritudinous peeps at Farmington High School in Farmington, Arkansas.   Keep flying high, Cardinals. Much love. Many blessings to you. Hope you all have an awesome weekend. Have a happy Easter weekend as well. Keep shining   y`all. Remember, you are more powerful than you know.  I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2024-04-01
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, and welcome to CNN 10, where we tell you the what, letting you decide what to think. I`m Coy. Hope you`re off to a   magnificent Monday, that you had a wonderful holiday weekend. We`re so happy to be right back here with you.  Let`s start today talking about electronics. Last week, we explored the growing challenge of e-waste, as there`s a major effort underway to find   new ways to manage all of the growing piles of electronic device garbage and leftovers. But that was only part of the story, because at the very same time, the demand for computer chips continues to rise, and there`s one company making   more of them than anyone else.  Located in Taiwan, the Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company is one of the world`s most secretive tech companies. CNN`s Will Ripley recently   gained rare access to the training facility to uncover what it takes to work there, and how they create these modern-day chips that run our   smartphones, laptops, and cars. And TMSC is expanding its operations as demand for its advanced chips continues to boom.  CNN`s Will Ripley has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): This is Taiwan`s epicenter of technological revolution, where precision meets   innovation, and tiny chips power big dreams.  This is TSMC, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, commanding more than 50% of the global market, producing more than 90% of the world`s most   advanced chips. RIPLEY: To say it`s difficult to gain access to Taiwan`s Semiconductor Manufacturing Company would be the understatement of the year or maybe two   years, because that`s about how long it`s taken my team and I to get permission to come here. Behind these walls, some of the world`s most   advanced, highly secretive technology. It`s so secret you have to check your phone, your laptop, anything that emits a signal just to walk through   the door. RIPLEY (voice-over): As demand for A.I. driven technologies soars, TSMC is the go-to global manufacturer, sending stocks skyrocketing. The company`s workforce, 77,000 strong and growing, a far cry from its humble beginnings in 1987, says the senior vice president of human   resources, Laura Ho. What is it like to run H.R. for what is arguably the most important company in the world right now? LAURA HO, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES, TSMC: I think now H.R. is very different than the H.R. then, because we are fast expanding our   global footprint. RIPLEY (voice-over): TSMC says it needs to hire thousands of new employees over the next few years to fill chip factories or fabs under construction   right now across Taiwan and around the world. Last month, TSMC opened its first fab in Kumamoto, Japan, with the help of billions of dollars in government subsidies. They`re also building new fabs   in Dresden, Germany and Phoenix, Arizona. RIPLEY: What`s the most challenging location where you`re trying to build a factory right now? HO: I think Arizona is more difficult. Regulations and the culture is different. We have to adjust to local culture and different employees. RIPLEY: Why the decision to do the more advanced technology in Arizona? HO: Our leading-edge customers are mostly American companies. So to serve their need in their home country, that`s the objective. RIPLEY (voice-over): That Arizona fab is facing chronic delays. The price tag skyrocketing. Making chips outside of Taiwan and making them profitable   will likely require huge government subsidies. KRISTY HSU, DIRECTOR OF TAIWAN ASEAN STUDIES CENTER: They estimated the cost in the U.S. compared with Taiwan is about 40 percent more expensive.   But right now, because of the inflation, all these kind of issues right now, they think it`s probably two times or three times more expensive. RIPLEY (voice-over): TSMC`s overseas expansion must overcome massive hurdles. An expansion world leaders say is necessary to protect the global   chip supply chain from potentially disastrous disruptions. We got a taste of that during the pandemic. Months long waits for new phones, laptops and   other tech. Any major disruption could mean waiting years for cutting edge tech. Taiwan is a volcanic island prone to earthquakes, typhoons and other natural disasters. HO: This earthquake, for example, earthquake, I think all our engineers need to go back to the company soon. Doesn`t matter what time it is. If   it`s midnight, they will come back. RIPLEY (voice-over): Perhaps the biggest threat to TSMC`s supply chain, also one of its biggest customers, rising tensions with China. The   company`s stock is surging anyway, as other nations scramble to catch up with Taiwan. HO: I don`t think it would take away the strength. Because we are still very highly concentrated in Taiwan and the most leading technology with   absolutely starting from Taiwan. RIPLEY (voice-over): Beyond its core semiconductor business, TSMC is exploring new frontiers in advanced packaging, paving the way for enhanced   processing power and energy efficiency, pushing the boundaries of what`s possible in today`s fast-moving world of tech. Will Ripley, CNN, Taichung, Taiwan. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia. What event made baseball history in 1903?  First interleague game, first night game, first World Series, first perfect game. Batter up, in 1903, the Boston Americans defeated the Pittsburgh Pirates in the first ever World Series.  Buy me some peanuts and cracker jacks, folks. Baseball season is officially underway, and for today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, we`re looking at a   different kind of baseball. Have you ever heard of the Savannah Bananas? They`re an exhibition baseball team that thought baseball was ripe for some   change, and they peeled back what they called the boring bites and pitched an entirely new game. It`s called Banana Ball. Our Andy Scholes is on the   story. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Bats on fire. Swinging a hot stick. Players on stilts. Backflip catches. The best backflip we`ve ever seen. And   dancing. Lots and lots of dancing.  The Savannah Bananas have exploded in popularity since their inception in 2016, to the point now where they are selling out major league ballparks. JESSE COLE, SAVANNAH BANANAS OWNER: When we first started, we only sold a handful of tickets, and so we were just trying to make sure baseball or   banana ball could eventually work in Savannah. And now to see it with, you know, a wait list of over 2 million people and selling out major league   stadiums and a million fans this year, I don`t think anyone could have written this up. SCHOLES: Bananas owner Jesse Cole and his wife Emily put everything they had into starting the Bananas with the mission to make baseball fun. They   have certainly done that. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He clears Kellogg. Back up the middle. It`s a base hit. SCHOLES: So much fun, getting a ticket to see the Savannah Bananas is as tough as a Taylor Swift concert with hundreds of thousands of people on the   wait list.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is banana ball.  SCHOLES: The team now has more than 8 million followers on TikTok, and one of their stars, Jackson Olson, well, he himself has more TikTok followers   than any major league team. JACKSON OLSON, SAVANNAH BANANAS INFIELDER: Pretty crazy. I started it for fun, and I`m still doing it for fun, and I think that`s probably a reason   why. I`ve done it every day for almost three years now, and I`m loving it more every day. SCHOLES: So to be a banana, what`s more important? Is it being able to dance or play baseball?  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Really nice dance, he gets the outside corner. CHRISTIAN DEARMAN, SAVANNAH BANANAS PITCHER: I think you got to have a great mix of both, because all these guys out here have such amazing   personalities that are outside of the box, but they also can play really well. Some of the most talented guys from all over the country, D1 level,   some ex-pros, man, we`re all coming firing, guns blazing.  COLE: These guys are tremendously skilled. I mean, many of them play professional baseball from first round draft picks to top, you know, top   recruits, and then now, they can also dance, or they can do back flips, or they can do all that, and I think that`s really important. You have to be   able to entertain. And, you know, in our company, it`s fans first entertainment. Our mission is fans first, entertain always. You got to be   able to entertain. So if you can just play ball, you might not be a great fit for us. SCHOLES: Now, the Bananas play by their own rules, known as Banana Ball, and there are so many fun quirks, including the batter can steal first base   at any point during an event, and if a fan catches a foul ball, it`s an out.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Foul, caught by a fan, and that`s your ball game. DEARMAN: That is, it`s like the cherry on top of the cake, you know? When a fan gets to be a part of our show, actually coming onto the field, we`re   celebrating with them, because they just made one of the biggest plays of the whole game. BILL LERO, SAVANNAH BANANAS CATCHER: As soon as this ball`s hit over the net, it`s more intense than it is when it`s hit in fair play, because we`re   like, holy cow, like a fan has a chance to catch this, the whole crowd`s zoomed in on it. It`s a special moment. It`s by far my favorite role. SCHOLES: Now, watching the Bananas is a blast, but could I be a banana? Not even close. I`ll stick to being a fan. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Andy, busting out the dance moves. I see you, buddy. All right, superstars, that`s all we have time for, for today. Let`s head on over to Livingston Middle School in California for a shout- out today. How you doing, Cougars? Rise up. And to all the senators out at Carson High School in Nevada, keep shining. Thanks for being with us. You rock. Now, this is going to be tough. I have some news about the show. Today was my last day. I`ve loved being part of this show so much that it can`t be my   last day. Happy April Fools, everybody! My favorite holiday of the year. Keep your head on a swivel. Trust no one. See you tomorrow. I`m Coy. And we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-04-02
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, friends. Let`s get our energy up, up, up and take some time on this terrific Tuesday to give a shoutout to all the   teachers out there who are uplifting, informing and inspiring us every day. So be sure to give your teacher a handshake, a high five, a fist bump. Let   them know, I see you.  I`m Coy. This is CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news. Rise up.  We start by taking you out to California where many fast-food workers just got a pay raise. That`s because of a new law that went into effect on   Monday, one that requires all fast-food restaurants to pay their employees at least $20 per hour.  There are more than half a million fast food workers in California and many of them aren`t teenagers working an after-school job. They`re adults   looking to keep a roof over their heads and food on their tables. And just this week, many of them just got a 25% pay bump. But not everyone is ready to order a happy meal after hearing this news. Many of these chain restaurants, they`re not owned by the larger   corporation, they`re owned by franchisees. So they`re more like small businesses. And these franchise store owners, they`re worried that the   increase in pay will make it too expensive to run their business, meaning they`ll have to maybe lay some people off or stop plans to open new stores   or even close some of their existing stores.  But some researchers are questioning those fears around pay increases. They state that over the past decade, California doubled its minimum wage,   ending up at the current $16 per hour. And during that time, the data shows that the increase in pay did not lead to a lot of layoffs or a slowdown in   the pace of hiring.  However, companies like Jack in the Box, Starbucks, McDonald`s and Chipotle say they`re going to raise prices in a state that`s already one of the most   expensive places to live in the country.  All right, next we take you out onto the Patapsco River to see the remnants of the Francis Scott Key Bridge in Baltimore. As you may remember, last   Tuesday in the early morning hours, a freight ship crashed into a pillar of the famed bridge, causing it to collapse. Officials say that a group of six   men working an overnight shift fixing potholes died when it collapsed. Gloria Pazmino has more on what`s next for the city of Baltimore. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) GLORIA PAZMINO, CNN BALTIMORE, MARYLAND:  So you can see we have been able to get extremely up close to the wreckage of the Dali and we`re starting to   really get an appreciation and a sense of just how massive this job is going to be.  You`re looking at 4,000 tons of steel and concrete that are sitting on top of that bow. That is going to be the most complicated part of this   operation. Moving all of that debris and taking it off the ship so that they can begin this cleanup process and then there`s everything that`s   laying below the surface. The part that we can`t see. There is more metal, more concrete, more debris in the water and that`s going to be critical because they have to be able to make that safe for the   divers whose mission it is to get back into the water and continue searching to attempt to recover the bodies of those who were lost. But as we`re sitting here, you know, now finally being able to really see it and get up close to it, you really just get a sense of the enormity of   the job at hand. But all the officials here have told us that they are confident that they`re going to be able to get it done. They`re working together, have all   of the technology necessary and they`re going step by step, taking a meticulous approach to make sure that they get it right and that eventually   they can reopen the port. They can start rebuilding and that this important symbol for the City of Baltimore, and the City of Baltimore and the State   of Maryland can get cleaned up and the people here can start getting back to normal. I`m Gloria Pazmino, CNN. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Pop quiz hotshot. Which animal is often depicted as a villain in children`s stories and can be heard from more than five miles away? A lion,   a wolf, a dolphin, or a snake? Wolf is your answer here. They`ve created havoc in "The Boy Who Cried Wolf," "Little Red Riding Hood," and "The Three Little Pigs," just to name   a few.  Owooooo, sorry, just getting reintroduced to my inner wolf. And that`s a lot like what`s happening in Colorado, where people voted to reintroduce   wolves back into their state. That`s the first time ever in the country`s history that a state has voted on this kind of ballot initiative. But as Lucy Kafanov shows us, after the vote passed by a slim margin, some folks in the more rural parts of the state weren`t exactly howling with   joy. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KELLY MURPHY, ANIMAL CARE SUPERVISOR, COLORADO WOLF AND WILDLIFE:  Humans adapting with wolves is going to be the biggest obstacle that we`re going   to be dealing with. LUCY KAFANOV, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  After being nearly eradicated from Colorado about 80 years ago, wolves are officially back in   the state. Thanks to the first ever voter-mandated reintroduction of endangered wolves in U.S. history, these wolves, captured in Oregon, were   set free in Colorado`s wilderness last December. KAFANOV (on camera):  You are hungry. I never thought I`d be able to get so close to a wolf.  MURPHY:  She`s a very special ambassador. KAFANOV (voice-over):  Kelly Murphy, the Animal Care Supervisor at the Colorado Wolf and Wildlife Center, is one of the advocates who`s helped   bring wolves back to the state. (On camera):  Obviously, this is not an interaction we`d ever have in the wild. MURPHY:  Right. Absolutely. If you see a wolf in the wild, our advice is to take a picture and consider yourself lucky because it`s probably never   going to happen again. KAFANOV (voice-over):  Some two million gray wolves once roamed freely throughout North America. But when European settlers arrived, they brought   their old-world myths and hatred of wolves with them. By the 1940s, wolves were nearly wiped out. MURPHY:  There`s so many myths and misconceptions that are surrounding wolves. Sometimes it`s difficult to understand that they`re not exactly   true. KAFANOV:  As an apex predator at the top of the food chain, they help keep certain animal populations in check, which in turn helps plants, trees and   other wildlife thrive. MURPHY:  They are critical to maintaining the balance of our ecosystems, and that means that it`s a more productive landscape for ranchers to also   graze their cattle. KAFANOV (on camera):  So what did the wolf do to this specific cow? DON GITTLESON, RANCHER:  So he got a hold of her by the throat and then he got a hold of her by the hind leg. It`s healed a lot. KAFANOV (voice-over):  Don Gittleson was fending off wolf incursions on his ranch in northern Colorado long before the ballot initiative. GITTLESON:  We`ve had wolves here for several years. KAFANOV:  They`ve been coming from neighboring Wyoming, which reintroduced wolves in the 90s. GITTLESON:  To me, this is my home. To them, this is their home. And they`re not just going to leave. See these marks in the snow here? KAFANOV (on camera):  Are those the wolf tracks? GITTLESON:  That`s the last time they came through. KAFANOV (voice-over):  In Colorado, the wolf reintroduction proposition barely passed, with most of the votes in favor of reintroduction coming   from urban areas like Denver and Boulder. GITTLESON:  People have very strong opinions about wolves, and it doesn`t matter what side they`re on. KAFANOV (voice-over):  But here in rural Colorado, there`s no confusing which side they`re on. The state compensates ranchers for livestock   attacks. But because it`s illegal to hunt wolves in Colorado, Don has had to get creative, using donkeys. GITTLESON:  They bite and they bite hard.  KAFANOV (voice-over):  Longhorns, and shooting blanks. As for fencing? (On camera):  It`s a pretty big place to put a fence around. GITTLESON:  Yeah, a foot chain link fence to keep the wolves out. I have moose, I have mule deer, I have elk, and I have antelope that cross this   country to migrate back and forth. And I would absolutely stop them from doing that. And I`m not willing to do that. KAFANOV (on camera):  You care about this landscape. GITTLESON:  So you don`t manage things one species at a time. MURPHY:  We don`t want to just leave it to the ranchers to deal with that on their own. There are a lot of organizations and NGOs that are willing to   help implement those non-lethal measures because at the end of the day, ranchers and wolf advocates want the same thing. We all want clean air,   clean spaces and healthy environment and ecosystem. And I think that wolves are a very key element into making that happen. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, we`re headed to an elementary school in Nevada where a teacher took a very different and delicious   approach to teaching kids about math and physics. After collecting nearly 1,000 unopened boxes of cereal donated by parents, Roger Becker had his   fifth-grade students line him up and knock him down. Look at him go.  All right, superstars, tomorrow is #YourWordWednesday, where your word can make it into the show and boost our vocabulary. Follow me @Coywire on   Instagram, Snapchat, TikTok. Submit your unique vocab words in the comment sections of our most recent posts, along with your name, school, city, state and your teacher`s name if   you`d like. And we`ll shout out a winner in tomorrow`s show.  Today`s shout out goes to Pickens High School in Jasper, Georgia. Go Dragons.  And this shout out goes to Oliver W. Winch Middle School in South Glenn`s Falls, New York. We see you, Bulldogs. We hope you and everyone watching   around the world have a wonderful one.  I`m Coy. And we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-04-03
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, friends. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, and it`s #YourWordWednesday. So remember to keep an ear out to see if your   vocab word helped us write today`s show.  We begin today with the much-anticipated solar eclipse. On Monday, millions of Americans will witness one of the world`s most extraordinary events as   the moon passes between Earth and the sun. For the lucky ones, right in the heart of the action, in the so-called path of totality, you`re in for a treat that lasts up to four minutes, according   to NASA. For those outside of the direct path, a crescent-shaped partial eclipse will be the main event, weather permitting, of course.  Now, when you`re watching from wherever you`re watching, remember, there`s no peeking at the solar eclipse without your shades on. And I`m not talking   about your usual sunglasses. It`s best to use specialized solar eclipse glasses or watch through a handheld solar viewer.  Joseph Galbo with the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission has more. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOSEPH GALBO, U.S. CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION:  If you are thinking about watching the solar eclipse, but you don`t have eclipse glasses, do   not try to use your regular sunglasses. Don`t do it. Your sunglasses can`t handle it. Definitely don`t stare at the eclipse without any sort of protection. If you stare at the eclipse with your naked eye, you`re going to injure your   eyes pretty badly. If you don`t have solar eclipse glasses, create a solar eclipse pinhole projector. It`s just a way of watching the shadow of the   eclipse move across the sun. You just need a few simple things. This is a cereal box. We turned it inside out for legal reasons, but if you do turn it inside out, you can decorate it, and that`s super fun. You need a marker or a   pencil, some tape, a pushpin or a paperclip, some aluminum foil, a pair of scissors, and some printer paper. First step, trace the box onto a piece of   paper. Step two, cut out your tracing. Take the piece of paper and place it at the bottom of the box. You want to line the bottom of the box with a white   sheet of paper, because what you`re actually going to be seeing is the shadow of the moon moving across the front of the sun, and the brighter the   reflection of that screen, the better you`ll be able to see the shadow. Next, you want to cut the tabs off the sides of the box. You`re going to cut these flaps on the box about a third of the way, this way and this way.   You want to do this to both sides. It should look like this.  Next, you want to tape the center of the box. Get a sheet of aluminum foil and fold it. And then, place it on one side of the box, fold it over to   create a nice screen. And you`re going to want to tape it on every single side. With your paperclip or your pushpin, you`re going to want to create a   hole in the center of the aluminum foil.  Now your pinhole projector is ready, so you can head outside, make sure the sun is behind you, hold the projector up to your eye, and then look for   sunlight to come into the projector. Once it has, just hold it in place, and you can watch the eclipse. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia. Which ice cream flavor is the most popular among American consumers?  Vanilla, chocolate, strawberry, or cookies and cream? Can we not say all of the above? Sure, why not? Well, America`s favorite ice cream flavor is chocolate, though, according to the International Dairy   Foods Association. Cocoa is the main ingredient that makes chocolate possible. And West Africa is home to 70% of it, did you know? But poor climate and crop diseases have   tightened the supply in the region and caused prices to skyrocket. As a result, some chocolatiers are exploring cost-cutting alternatives. In this next segment, we visit a chocolate shop to learn about the surging   prices firsthand. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  For chocolatiers, the last several months have been nonstop. JOCELYN DUDUKE, CHEF AND OWNER OF JARDI CHOCOLATES: You get Halloween, Thanksgiving, Christmas, Valentine`s Day, a little bit of break, Easter,   and now things kind of slow down a little bit. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Jocelyn Duduke is the Owner and Chef of Jardi Chocolates. She`s tasked with making chocolate confections of different   flavors, shapes, and colors. But this year, since the price of cocoa has gotten significantly more expensive, she`s rethinking the kind of treats   she makes and how she makes them, like this marshmallow chocolate bunny. DUDUKE:  It`s a chocolate cookie with a vanilla bean marshmallow, and then it`s covered in milk chocolate. So for the, you know, 30 grams that you`re   getting, only 18 grams of that is chocolate, which means it`s a much lower ingredient cost for me, much lower labor for me as well, which means that I   can pass along those lower costs. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  In January of 2023, Duduke was paying $13.50 a kilo for chocolate. This week, she`s paying $15.71 a kilo. DUDUKE:  That`s a 16% increase. The white chocolate, like I said, has gone up 35% in less than a year. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And with no end in sight for when prices could normalize, Duduke will have to continue finding creative ways to create   delicious chocolate while keeping her business afloat. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Could you imagine a world where every drop of water is precious? Well, for some, that future is now. UNICEF predicts that half of the   world`s population could be facing issues with water scarcity by next year. The lack of clean drinking water could displace 700 million people by the year 2030. In this next segment, we`ll meet a group of astute and   innovative MIT students who are engineering ways to make clean drinking water more accessible around the world. CNN`s Bill Weir has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BILL WEIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  On a planet of nearly 8 billion people, as aquifers are drained, reservoirs evaporate and sea levels rise.   Earth`s freshwater supply is getting dirtier, saltier, and scarcer. And while desalination keeps some wealthy nations alive, making saltwater sweet   demands the kind of energy and infrastructure that`s just out of reach for the most desperate societies. YANG ZHONG, GRADUATE STUDENT, MIT:  I really had a chance to teach in a rural area in China. I was really shocked to see that how struggling they   were to get some clean water. That journey was like two hours every day. WEIR:  So it`s no wonder that some of the most promising breakthroughs in water tech are coming from the melting pot laboratories of Boston, where   MIT`s Yang Zhong and Lenan Zhang invented a machine the size of a suitcase that mimics the circulation power of the ocean. Powered only by sunlight,   they say their prototype can desalinate six liters an hour at a cost cheaper than tap water. ZHONG:  So for a device that has the footprint of a solar panel, this will cost around like $150 to $200. WEIR (on camera):  Wow, that`s cheap. And then you don`t have to plug it in. It doesn`t need any external power source. It`s just the sun above it. ZHONG:  Yeah, just sun. ZHANG:  Natural sunlight. WEIR:  Welcome to the Carson Beach. JUNGHYO YOON, FORMER RESEARCH SCIENTIST, MIT:  Solar panel, battery, power desalination unit. WEIR:  Meanwhile, a Korean team from MIT came up with another potential game changer. YOON:  Just drinking. We just sent our most recent prototype to the U.S. Army that can produce 10 liters per hour of the drinking water with a   direct feed of the seawater. WEIR:  Junghyo tells me his startup ICPWaterTech is just getting its first millions in investment. And after two students from India met as MIT lab   partners and set out to clean and recycle the dirtiest of industrial waste, their company Gradient is the first in the sector to be valued at $1   billion, a clean water unicorn. (On camera):  It just strikes me that these ideas are the result of immigrants coming from developing places who see the problem in a much more   acute way than Americans do. Then mingling these ideas in a place like Boston at MIT, where the dreamers and the doers meet, it`s exciting to   think about the possibilities of that combination. ZHONG:  Yeah, we`re really fortunate to be here at MIT and in Boston because we are surrounded by a lot of resources. And right now, just like   sponge, learning all these things. ZHANG:  Seawater is the most abundant resource covering the Earth, and solar is accessible everywhere. And then, like, why not, like, make some,   you know, like, combined? And then, like, it can be a very powerful tool. It`s more like an equitable resource to anyone, anywhere. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10. Another domino effect of deliciousness. Yesterday, we saw some cereal boxes, but today`s is even   cheddar. These super cool kids in North Battleford, Saskatchewan, collected macaroni and cheese donations in an attempt to break a Guinness World Record. The   record? The largest domino topple for a single served food item. The Canadian students worked with their neighbors to track down 7,000 boxes of mac and cheese. Then, Kraft Heinz Canada matched them for another 5,000.   Guinness is currently reviewing the world record attempt. The real win? All of those boxes are now headed to the local food bank to help feed those in   need. That`s a really gouda story. So good, I can`t even bear it.  All right, congrats to Dr. Street`s class at the University of South Carolina for the #YourWordWednesday winner. Astute, an adjective meaning   having or showing shrewdness and an ability to notice and understand things clearly. Just like USC`s women`s hoops astute coach Dawn Staley.  Today`s shout out goes to Greenland Central School in Greenland, New Hampshire. Rise up. And this shout out goes to Northeast Magnet High School in Bel Aire, Kansas. We see you. Thanks for being with us. We`ll see you right back here   tomorrow.  I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-04-04
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up, Sunshine? Welcome to CNN 10. I`m Coy Wire, grateful to be here with you this Thursday, April 4th. You know,   sometimes adversity and really tough times can force us to reflect on things we can be thankful for. So let`s keep that in mind as we start today   with tough news out of Taiwan, where a 7.4 magnitude earthquake struck the east coast of the island. It`s the most powerful quake there in a quarter   century. At least nine people have died, nearly 1,000 more have been injured, and more than 100 buildings have been damaged. The earthquake struck a little   before 8 a.m. local time just outside of Hualien County, where around 300,000 of Taiwan`s 23 million people live.  In a five-hour span after the earthquake, Taiwan experienced 76 aftershocks, including a 6.5 magnitude tremor. Unfortunately, Taiwan isn`t   out of the woods just yet. More strong aftershocks are expected in the coming days, with some potentially reaching a magnitude of 7. But   thankfully, Taiwan, Japan, and the Philippines have all canceled the tsunami warnings they issued after the quake. Taiwan is a self-ruled democracy that has a complicated relationship with its neighbor, China. China says Taiwan is part of China, while Taiwan says   it`s independent. This has led to tension in the region as the U.S. tries to support a democratic government in Taiwan, while not upsetting China,   the world`s second largest economy and the only other so-called superpower in the world.  Taiwan also holds an outside importance in the world economy. Just on Monday, we took you inside Taiwan`s semiconductor manufacturing company,   where over 90% of the world`s microchips are produced. These chips provide the computing power for everything from smartphones to cars, making them   vital to the global marketplace. Next up, millions of Americans are preparing to travel next week to witness the solar eclipse, and that means big business for the communities hosting   them. The eclipse`s Path of Totality, where people can get the best view of the eclipse, stretches from Mexico across the U.S. and into Canada. The   head of tourism in Indiana, one of the states along the Path of Totality, said they`re expecting around half a million visitors, a record for the   state and more than seven times the size of the crowd that traveled there for the Super Bowl in 2012. Texas is likely to get the largest number of visitors, and local economists predict it could lead to a windfall of more than $400 million for the   state. On the Canadian side of the Niagara Falls, crowds are expected to be so large that the local government has declared a state of emergency. CNN`s   Paula Newton has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PAULA NEWTON, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Niagara Falls is known for its stunning views. The number of people expected to visit the famous   waterfalls may soon become a spectacle in itself. It`s a prime viewing site for the solar eclipse on April 8th as it crosses North America, passing   over Mexico, the United States and Canada. JIM DIODATI, NIAGARA FALLS, CANADA MAYOR: Even though we get 14 million people every year, it`s over the year. It`s not all at one time. To get one   million at one time would be by far the biggest crowd that we`ve ever had. NEWTON (voice-over): Canada`s Niagara region has declared a state of emergency so that emergency services can prepare for the influx of people.   Hotels, stores and restaurants are gearing up for the visitors, which are estimated to outnumber the locals. Ontario`s Niagara region has a   population of nearly half of a million people, but some business owners say they`re looking forward to some extra company. GABRIEL GABRIE, PIZZERIA OWNER: We`re expecting to have a full house for the first time in a long time. We`re coming up for the winter season. So,   it`s an exciting time. NEWTON (voice-over): By the time the eclipse is fully visible over Niagara Falls at approximately 3:18 p.m. Eastern Time, it will be nearing the end   of its trek across the continent, which happens when it passes over the coast of Newfoundland and Labrador. It will be the first total eclipse in   Canada since 1979, and the last time that contiguous U.S. will see one until 2044. So, it`s a sight many people say they don`t want to miss. JASON HARLOW, UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO: Having that collective feeling of, oh, the sun has gone, you know, and seeing something that`s so rare and so   beautiful and to see the stars come out in the day, yeah, it`s something that my kids will remember their whole lives. NEWTON (voice-over): Paula Newton, CNN. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia.  Which of these is the biggest shark in the ocean? Great white shark, whale shark, megamouth shark or tiger shark? If you said whale shark, well done. These behemoth sharks can grow up to 40 feet long, the size of a school bus, but they`re gentle giants that are   migratory, living in warm and tropical seas.  Now we`re going to take you out onto a boat in the Bahamas, where a conservation group "Beneath the Waves" is tagging and collecting data on   sharks and other sea life to better understand and preserve our oceans. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Following an epic day getting up close and personal with sharks, the team from Beneath the Waves is primed to get back out in   the field. Today they`re setting out to the Exumas, a chain of 365 largely uninhabited islands. DR. AUSTIN GALLAGHER, FOUNDER/CEO, BENEATH THE WAVES: Oh no, no, no, we`re going to get set up a little bit closer, kind of like the first one in the   channel mountain. And we`re going to --  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Here they hope to tag some sharks, an essential part of their mission in helping protect the animal and their habitat. GALLAGHER: In order to get these sharks close to the boat to get the data we need on their movements, on their habitat use, what their diet is, we   actually need to catch the sharks. So we need to put out these apparatus we`ve designed, they`re called drum lines, and they`re actually really good   for shark tagging because it doesn`t harm them and they can still be, you know, swimming and breathing. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The workup includes taking measurements, blood and tissue samples, and ID tagging the sharks. There are very strict rules on   the capture, sample collection and tagging of animals set forth by numerous institutional animal care and use committees. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So this is the tag we`re going to be putting into the animal. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: In addition to following those procedures, Beneath the Waves has also obtained all of the required permits for this expedition. GALLAGHER: It`s a blacknose shark. It`s a beautiful shark. The total length is 116. Now we`re going to take a little sample here for genetics. We`re   going to be able to trace the DNA, the heritage of this animal just from this sample. So now we`re putting in an identification spaghetti tag right   into the dorsal fin. One, two, three, just like that. Now we`re going to take a muscle biopsy. You can see we move really fast. OK, I`ll take a   blood sample, then we`re going to let it go. One, two, three.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Good work. GALLAGHER: Very quick workup. Nice little blacknose shark. But we want something bigger, so let`s go to the next one, Trey. That`s a big nurse. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The larger sharks are kept off the side of the boat. JEFFREY PANKEY, BOARD OF DIRECTORS, BENEATH THE WAVES: Right now I`m putting in all the information, so fin clips, muscle clips, blood and all   the different pieces that we`re getting. We`re jotting down the pit tags and the spaghetti tags so that when we look up the data, they`ll be able to   retract where we got the information from. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: On this trip, the team is also hoping to expand their research to a different kind of tropical sea dweller. GALLAGHER: I really want to embrace a partnership with sea turtles similarly to what we did with tiger sharks. So on this expedition, we`re   trying to apply tags to sea turtles to see if they can serve as sentinels for seagrass health on this expedition. We`re going to start some of that   work for the first time. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10. We head to the Netherlands for a -- hold up. Am I reading this right? That can`t be right. A fish   doorbell? Yes? OK.  Well, apparently four years ago when an ecologist walked by a canal, which are all over the Netherlands, he noticed a bunch of fish swimming there   trying to get upstream. The one issue, there was a lock in the way. So to fix the problem, the scientists set up an underwater live stream that   allows viewers to hit this fish doorbell to alert the local lock operator that there`s some fish wanting to get through. Once the doorbell is rung,   the operator opens the lock and the fish continue upstream. That is something. Alrighty then.  Hey, happy Friday Eve, everyone. Can`t wait to finish this week strong with you. But first, let`s show some love today. This shout out goes to Mr.   Polkow`s U.S. Government class at Skyview High School in Billings, Montana. Rise up, Falcons.  And this shout out goes to Mrs. Montgomery. We will see you and all the Wildcats at Hamilton Middle School in Parkersburg, West Virginia. Thank you   to all of you for spending part of your day with us. I`ll see you right back here tomorrow so we can finish this week strong. END 

Date: 2024-04-05
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello and happy Friday, Friyay. I`m Coy Wire. Welcome back to CNN 10. And welcome to Phoenix, Arizona. I`m here for the   Men`s NCAA Basketball Championship and the Final Four, which tip off this weekend. My goodness, it is beautiful here. Love this place.  All right, we`ve got three more days before the solar eclipse happens and there`s a lot of anticipation building for this awe-inspiring moment, in   large part because a total solar eclipse like this one won`t be visible again in the United States until the year 2044. How old will you be 20 years from now? During the solar eclipse on April 8th, more than 30 million people in the U.S. who are located along the path   of totality will potentially have their view of the sun completely blocked by the moon, but location and weather are key. Our Kristin Fisher has more   on this celestial spectacle that many of us will get to experience. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT:  A total solar eclipse like this one will not be visible from the United States again until 2044,   so 20 years from now. That`s why we`re seeing so many people scrambling to try to find the best weather and get in position to see this on Monday.  There are a few other things that make this eclipse really unique and the first is the length of time for totality. That`s the moment when the moon   completely blocks out the sun and that`s when day will literally turn to night, so dark that the stars come out, nocturnal animals come out. That is   how dark it gets and so that moment of totality for this eclipse is much longer than it was in previous eclipses. At the longest point it`ll be   about four minutes and 30 seconds, so that`s a good amount of time to really get to soak in the power of nature in our solar system. Another really unique thing about this eclipse is the fact that it just happens to coincide with a period of peak activity on the surface of the   sun, so during that moment of totality things like solar flares or coronal mass ejections are much more likely than in previous eclipses and could   just make for some really cool viewing. But of course with any eclipse, but this one in particular, the weather is always a factor and unfortunately   it`s not looking like it`s going to cooperate in large parts of the United States along this path of totality. Texas and Arkansas, really the weather   not looking great there, but places like southern Missouri and Indianapolis and upstate New York and New England, the weather`s looking pretty good   there. So as always before an eclipse, the eclipse chasers, the diehards are trying to find that best weather viewing condition so that they can see   this eclipse because again, if you don`t see this one it`s going to be 20 years before you get to see something like this if you live in the United   States. Kristin Fisher, CNN, Washington. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Pop quiz, hot shot.  Which one of these artists has won the most Grammys? Taylor Swift, Shakira, Beyonce or Stevie Wonder? Queen B, Beyonce is the correct answer here. She`s the most awarded artist in Grammy history with a record 32 wins.  Music is an art and it`s so important to so many of us, right? But what happens when artificial intelligence replicates or replaces our beloved   artists` voices? It might be a good topic of discussion for you and your friends. Does AI change the way you perceive the songs and voices you love?   How does it change the music industry? Who all does it impact? Is AI a threat to the music industry or what good might it bring? More than 200 artists including Billie Eilish, Stevie Wonder, Jon Bon Jovi, Katy Perry and more say yes, artificial intelligence is a threat to the   music industry. In an open letter organized by the nonprofit Artist Rights Alliance, these artists are asking AI developers, tech companies, music   platforms and digital music services to stop the use of artificial intelligence, saying that it devalues the rights of human artists. CNN`s   Entertainment Correspondent Elizabeth Wagmeister has more on the artists` growing concerns. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ELIZABETH WAGMEISTER, CNN ENTERTAINMENT CORRESPONDENT:  This is the biggest show of support that we have seen from A-listers against AI, which of   course is a growing concern in Hollywood and beyond. Stars like Katy Perry, Stevie Wonder, Jon Bon Jovi, also the estates of Frank Sinatra and Bob   Marley are calling to stop AI from replacing human artists. They say that voice cloning will essentially take away work and take away compensation   from singers, songwriters, rights holders. Now, this is not an issue that is going away anytime soon, right? The technology is here to stay. And now what`s going to happen in Hollywood is   what do we do with it? How do you protect these artists? We do see some legislation happening. This is an issue that is going to Congress. We just saw Tennessee was the first state to pass an act to bring some rights and protections to the artists. But we also have artists who   appreciate AI. Paul McCartney recently said that he actually loves the technology because last year the Beatles were able to release what he says   is their last song by taking a track that was recorded by John Lennon decades ago and using it for a new song. So again, very innovative technology, but can`t take away from the work and the bottom line for all of these artists. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is going to a horse that has some serious rhythm. We`ve all heard of a rocking horse, right? But how   about a horse that is rocking? I`m talking about a headbanging rocker from Canada named Pretty, who`s got a serious penchant for metal. CNN`s Jeanne   Moos has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) AUTUMN PURDY, GROOM, BOGAR FARMS:  Come on, party time.  JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT:  How does this Canadian racehorse named Pretty party? She`s a headbanger, but only to certain   songs. AUTUMN PURDY, GROOM, BOGAR FARMS:  Metal was her like go-to headbanging music and she loves it. MOOS:  Her groom, Autumn Purdy, noticed the heavier the metal music, the more the horse would headbang. PURDY:  Yeah, I looked at my barn manager, I said, do you see what she`s doing? We turned the music off. She stopped. MOOS:  At Boger Farms in Ontario, they tested country music. She turned her butt to it, but her appetite for metal was obvious. (On camera):  She feels like she`s sort of on beat.  PURDY:  She always is. It`s incredible. No matter what song we play, slow jams, she`s slow, heavy songs, she`s going with the beat. MOOS:  Sometimes she gets overexcited. Her online fans call her a rocking horse. Her groom plans to post weekly music reviews with ratings based on   headbanging intensity or lack thereof. This horse could sing. She`d probably sing herself. Horse.  Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Hilarious. Now it`s time for the main event. So it would behoove me to show some love to you, Muhlenberg South Middle School in Greenville,   Kentucky. Rock on, baby.  And to our friends at Central Aroostook High School in Mars Hill, Maine, giddy up. And thank you for subscribing to our CNN 10 YouTube channel and   for spending part of your day with us. On Monday, we`re going to have a special edition of the show focused on Monday`s eclipse. And we`re going to also have a special live stream event   as the total eclipse creeps across the North American continent. Have an awesome weekend, everyone. Make someone smile. Remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2024-04-08
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, sunshine. It`s time to shine. Today is the day, Monday, April 8th, we have a special abbreviated version of CNN 10   dedicated to the great celestial event, the solar eclipse.  Today, millions of people in North America will witness one of the world`s most extraordinary events when the moon passes between the Earth and the   sun. For the lucky ones right in the heart of the action in the so-called path of totality, you`re in for a treat that lasts up to four minutes,   according to NASA. For those outside of the direct path, a crescent-shaped partial eclipse will be the main event, weather permitting, of course. CNN has a special   digital live stream of the event from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. Eastern today. We`ll share how you can view that in just a minute. But first, let`s break down what`s happening in the sky above. A total solar eclipse, it happens when the moon passes between the Earth and the   sun, completely blocking out the light. More than 32 million people across Mexico, the United States, and Canada could see the sun completely darkened by the moon`s shadow. And that moment   of total darkness could last more than four minutes in some places. It`s also going to be the last one for quite some time. A total solar eclipse   won`t happen again in the United States for about another 20 years.  Location is key. The total eclipse is only visible inside a very narrow track known as the path of totality. It stretches more than 10 U.S. states   from Texas through Maine. And the timing changes depending on where you are within that path.  People outside that narrow band will still be able to see a partial solar eclipse. That`s when the moon only blocks part of the sun`s face. That   should be visible in all 48 contiguous U.S. states.  Now, if you`re planning on peeking at a total or partial eclipse, remember to get you some certified eclipse glasses. Regular sunglasses, not strong   enough to protect your eyes. Otherwise, severe eye damage can occur. A solar retina burn can permanently injure your eyes and you might not even   feel it until it`s too late.  All right, to view CNN`s special live stream event of Monday`s total solar eclipse as it crosses over North America, head to CNN.com/eclipse or click   on the link below this video. That live presentation will be from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. Eastern today.  And CNN 10 will return to regular programming tomorrow. I`ll see you then, and no matter what gets in your way, keep shining. END 

Date: 2024-04-09
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Terrific Tuesday to you. Welcome back to CNN 10. I`m your host, Coy Wire. We`ve got a lot to get to, not a   lot of time to do it. So let`s get right to it. We start today talking about the current housing market in the United States. The dream of buying a home in America is becoming more expensive.   High mortgage rates, rising home prices and low home inventory are pushing home ownership further out of reach for first time buyers. A new bank rate analysis says Americans wanting to buy a medium-priced home need to make at least $110000 a year. That`s almost a 50% increase in the   last four years. This changes the calculation for potential homebuyers who are torn between buying or renting a home. Here`s Redfin.com`s Chief   Economist, Daryl Fairweather, with more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DARYL FAIRWEATHER, REDFIN.COM CHIEF ECONOMIST:  Right now, it is more affordable to rent than it is to pay for a mortgage. And historically, that   hasn`t been true. But if the mortgage payment that you would have to pay is less than 30% of your monthly income, then that means that you can afford   that mortgage pretty comfortably. How long are you going to stay in the home? If it`s for more than five years, there is a good chance that you   will build enough equity such that when you go to sell your home, you will make a return on your investment. But if you sell too soon, you might end   up losing money. So it`s a risk and a reward. We`re expecting this next year to be a bit better for buyers than it was last year. That`s because mortgage rates have   started to fall and also more listings of homes are coming on the market, which means there are more options for buyers. We are forecasting a slight correction in prices this year, down 1%. But it`s just not enough to really make it or break it for a homebuyer. It`s   probably going to keep getting less affordable, unfortunately.  There`s a tradeoff that a lot of young people have where the places where they can earn the most money are the places that have the most expensive   housing. So I think it`s completely valid to say, like, I want to live in New York City, for example, and I`m going to have access to all these jobs   that are going to improve my career prospects. And then one day when I am more established in my career, I`m going to, say, move to a suburb where   it`s more affordable and I`m going to be a homeowner that focus on your entire life and not just like reaching this one goal that isn`t as   attainable as it used to be. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Pop quiz, hot shot. Inside what European country would you find Vatican City, the smallest independent state in the world?  England, France, Germany or Italy? Located inside Italy, Vatican City is officially the smallest country in the world and roughly the size of 82 football fields. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Move over, Pisa, there`s another leaning tower in Italy. Built in the 12th century, the Garisenda Tower in Bologna, Italy,   started tilting just two centuries later. It now leans at a four-degree angle, slightly more than the Tower of Pisa currently tilts.  In 2023, scientists concluded the Garisenda was at high risk of collapsing and authorities temporarily closed off the streets around it. The city   plans to use the same equipment used to save the Tower of Pisa for this 20- million-dollar multiyear restoration project. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  That`s one tower I would not want to get caught taking a selfie under.  Now, this next story is a bizarre one that could have broader consequences. There`s an unusual phenomenon happening with some fish off the coast of   Florida that`ll make your head spin. CNN`s Bill Weir has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) GREGG FURSTENWERTH, FLORIDA KEYS LIFETIME RESIDENT:  I started diving when I was eight years old with my mom, so I`ve been in the water for a very   long time. BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Gregg Furstenwerth has seen a lot in his life spent underwater around the Florida   Keys but he`d never seen anything like this. FURSTENWERTH:  I noticed the fish were spinning and so I started taking video of that. But I really had no idea what I was looking at. WEIR:  Since last fall, he`s seen stingrays moving upside down, Goliath groupers flailing on their sides, and dozens of other species swimming in   tortured flailing loops. FURSTENWERTH:  Well, I mean, I`ve said that, you know, it`s like I`m in the middle of a disaster movie and I`m that guy yelling from, you know, the   mountain top, trying to get people to pay attention. WEIR:  State Fish and Wildlife officials, and Florida`s Bonefish and Tarpon Trust have logged nearly 200 incidents with over 30 species acting this   way, mostly in the lower Keys but as far north as Miami. MICHAEL ROLPH, CAPTAIN, MYKEYS TOURS:  Yes, this is crazy. I was out on a six-hour charter, I had two people on the boat, and we we`re down off a   ligament by the bank and we`ve happened to see a fish floundering on the flats. And then, so we got close to him. We wanted to see if there was a problem. And we could obviously tell that he was in distress. WEIR:  It turned out to be a sawfish, a critically endangered species that might lose four or five mature adults a year. But in just a few months, at   least 27 have beached themselves or died after intense episodes of what anglers are calling the spins. MIKE PARSONS, PROFESSOR, THE WATER SCHOOL AT FLORIDA GULF COAST UNIVERSITY:  So typically, when we think of fish acting strangely or dying, we there   think of low oxygen conditions in the water or red tide. And so we saw neither. WEIR:  At The Water School, Florida Gulf Coast University, Mike Parson`s team is part of a statewide effort to solve the mystery of the spinning   fish. And while tests for most toxins have turned up empty, the most promising suspect is found living off seaweed at the bottom. A tiny critter named   Gambierdiscus. ADAM CATASUS, RESEARCHER, THE WATER SCHOOL AT FLORIDA GULF COAST UNIVERSITY:  This is the highest we`ve seen of the Gambierdiscus cells of   the Keys. We don`t know if it`s the main cause. WEIR:  The single-cell algae can produce various neurotoxins and is showing up at record-high levels. But it`s just one more stressor on Marine life   already reeling from pollution, overfishing, and off-the- charts ocean heatwaves brought by climate change. PARSONS:  So there`s concern and curiosity, I guess, on, could the hot, hot temperatures in the summer cause some changes that may be led to the fish   behavior now. And we just don`t really have all the pieces together to try to link one for the other. FURSTENWERTH:  They really have no idea what is happening. I mean, there is no concrete conclusive proof of what is happening yet. And that is still to   be determined, which is quite terrifying. WEIR:  It is scary, isn`t it? FURSTENWERTH:  It is because, if it continues, it`s going to be the end of this ecosystem as we know it. WEIR (on camera):  Off the charts, ocean temperatures are, of course, just one of the massive stressors on marine life down here these days. There was   a three-year study recently in which 100% of the bonefish that were tested in the Keys turned up at least seven different pharmaceuticals from opioids   to antidepressants. And so this behavior has not been seen before, but it is sort of an attack from a thousand different angles for the creatures   living down here and may be a warning for the rest of us. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is positively paw-some. Who`s ready to party? This special dog just turned two years old and his grateful   police department threw him an awesome birthday bash. Jimmy has been a comfort dog for the Las Vegas PD for a year, spreading love and joy to the department. In such a short amount of time, though,   he`s traveled to hundreds of cities, comforting people who face traumatic events. Good boy. Jimmy enjoyed the celebration with cool hats, colorful balloons and even his own cake.  All right, superstars, we want to throw a party of appreciation for the best doggone viewers on the planet. And that is you. Shout out today to Waseca Junior and Senior High School in Waseca, Minnesota. Rise up.  And we`re also showing some love today to the fine folks up in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, at Penn Treaty School. Thank you for   subscribing to our CNN 10 YouTube channel. You rock.  See you right back here tomorrow. And thanks for joining us. I`m Coy Wire. And we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2024-04-10
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up friends? I`m Coy here in Arizona where UConn was crowned NCAA champions in men`s basketball. So congratulations to   the Huskies and we have to give a huge shout out to South Carolina who rocked it out in the women`s tournament. Rise Up. Today is #YourWordWednesday so listen to see if your vocab word made it into this show.  First up we start in our nation`s capital Washington D.C. where President Joe Biden is prepping for an important meeting with the leader of Japan,   Prime Minister Fumio Kishida. The main issue on the agenda, strengthening the military alliance between the U.S. and Japan. Japan is widely   considered the most important ally for the U.S. in Asia. The U.S. has military bases all over Japan and coming out of this summit, the U.S. and   Japan will change some rules that Biden and Kishida say will help the two countries work together better.  Japan and the U.S. are also discussing how to better design and possibly produce military and defense hardware together. Why do the countries want   to strengthen their bond? Well, they face many of the same threats, chief amongst them, China. The U.S. and Japan say they`re concerned about China   and Russia recently strengthening their relationship and that China has expanded its military presence in the Asia pacific region, which could   potentially endanger Taiwan. You may remember last week we talked about how China says it owns Taiwan, but Taiwan sees itself as independent. That has caused tension in the   region. And Taiwan is only 62 miles from Japan`s southern coast. North Korea`s nuclear arsenal, the war in Ukraine and the war in Gaza are also   major concerns for both countries. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) HANAKO MONTGOMERY, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The world at a historic turning point, Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida tells me ahead of his   summit with U.S. President Joe Biden this week. The longtime partners will upgrade their defense relationship to the next level in the backdrop of   mounting international security challenges. FUMIO KISHIDA, JAPANESE PRIME MINISTER (through translator): In our neighborhood, there are countries that are developing ballistic missiles   and nuclear weapons and others that are building up the defense capabilities in an opaque way. Also, there is a unilateral attempt to   change the status quo by force in both the East China Sea and South China Sea. MONTGOMERY: Kishida says soaring geopolitical tensions forced Japan long a pacifist country to change its defense posture, moves not seen since World   War II. Under his leadership, Japan plans to boost its defense spending to 2% of its GDP by 2027 and purchase weapons, including U.S. made Tomahawk   cruise missiles acquiring counterstrike capabilities for the first time in decades.  (On camera): So if Japan has a security pact with the United States, why does it need counterstrike capabilities? KISHIDA (through translator): Missile related technology is evolving year by year. As missiles become more sophisticated, Japan must constantly   consider what kind of technology is needed to protect the lives and livelihood of its citizens. MONTGOMERY: Following the U.S.-Japan summit, the two nations will convene with the Philippines, the first trilateral meeting of its kind to address   rising security threats from North Korea weapons testing and aggression in the South China Sea.  The U.S. and Japan, an enduring bond confronts its pivotal moment as a volatile world seeks to unravel their global sway. Hanako Montgomery, CNN   Tokyo. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia.  Which one of these categories is considered a worst-case scenario when it comes to hurricanes? Category 3, Category 1, Category 5, or Category 4? Correct answer is Category 5. Meteorologists use a scale called the Saffir- Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale to classify hurricanes into categories one through five. Categories three to five are considered major hurricanes, but   a category five is catastrophic. Next up, this coming hurricane season may be less than ideal. That`s according to Colorado State University. The school has been putting out   yearly forecast since 1995, and they say this year they`re predicting more hurricanes and major storms than ever coming out of the Atlantic Ocean. The university says that from June through November, there could be 23 big storms, including 11 hurricanes and five category three or higher major   hurricanes. These storms are likely to hit the eastern part of the U.S. and the Caribbean.  In the typical season, there are 14 big storms, including seven hurricanes. A big reason for more hurricanes this year is a weather phenomenon known as   La Nina, which basically means that the temperature of the surface water is cooler than normal in a particular area, and certain wind patterns are   stronger in that same area. Unfortunately, that combination creates the ideal conditions for some major storms. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Well, indeed, our water temperatures here in the Atlantic are 3 to 5 degrees warmer than they should be at this time of   year, indicative of really late April, not early April. And so our hurricane season will likely start earlier than usually more active season   changing to La Nina. And I`ll tell you what that means in a second. And obviously the warm ocean temperatures from the record-breaking year of 2023   globally.  So Colorado State 23, 11, and 5. Those are the numbers for storms with names, hurricanes and majors. Now, last year they had 13, 6, and 2, and it turned out to be 20, 7, and 3. So they`re not overestimating in April just in case. What they see is what   they get here in the warm temperatures with an early start, maybe a late end. That`s how we get to these numbers here.  Landfall anywhere across the U.S. is never a certainty. And even this year, with all of those storms in the water, we`re still only about 63% on   average right now, compared to what we should be in the 40s for any landfall hurricane for any given season. Of course, across the Gulf Coast   here to a 42% chance of something in the Gulf getting to major category. That doesn`t mean that storms aren`t going to landfall. It just means it   was a major storm making landfall there.  So what does La Nina do? Well, kind of the opposite of what El Nino did last year. El Nino made a lot of disturbances here. A lot of what we call   sheer in the atmosphere. Well, now the jet stream is going to be farther to the north, and that means that there`s going to be less sheer. Less sheer   down here means the storms aren`t going to be torn apart. If you have storms that aren`t torn apart, you`re going to get more storms to continue.   And so, therefore, more storms forming and more storms moving up toward the West. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: For our next story, we`re talking cameras. They`re everywhere. They`re on our phones, on our tablets, in our cars, on street corners. It`s   like there`s some Machiavellian plan out there to capture our every single move. And now we have the camera the size of a car. That`s right, the   biggest digital camera ever. It`s called the LSST Camera. It has three billion pixels, a five-foot-wide optical lens, and it took scientists at   the SLAC National Accelerator Lab nearly two decades to build it.  The camera will be installed at an observatory in Chile, where it will take a series of photos of the southern skies. Each photo will take 15 seconds   to snap. That may sound like a long time to take one photo, but it`s the best way to make sure the camera is capturing as much detailed information   in the deep, dark solar system as possible.  Then, every three days, scientists will take all those photos and stitch them together to make a huge, detailed image. Over the course of 10 years,   the camera will generate over 1000 of these large, detailed photos of the sky. Scientists will then analyze and compare these images to understand how our galaxy was formed, how the universe is expanding and what exactly is dark   matter, which is a substance that scientists believe exists in outer space, but don`t know for sure.  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, we go from photos of the sky to the animals that occupy it, birds. Well, in this case, parrots. Researchers   have been studying how parrots interact with touch screens. The reason? They may want to develop apps to entertain them. You see, parrots are very   smart creatures, and the concern is that if you keep them cooped up as pets, they could get bored. So what do people like to do if they get bored?   Games, apps.  This is all coming from a recent paper written by researchers at Northeastern University`s Interact Animal Lab in the University of   Glasgow`s Animal Computer Interaction Lab. So if you get a Snapchat from Polly who wants a cracker, you`ll know why. All right, superstars, congrats to Mr. Rosvalley`s class at Weston Middle in Weston, Connecticut, for submitting our vocab word of the day,   "Machiavellian," an adjective meaning to be cunning, scheming and unscrupulous. Great job, explorers. And thanks for watching our show every   day.  For today`s shout out, we are showing some love to Forest Park Middle School in Franklin, Wisconsin. Wildcats, rise up. And how about a shout out to Ida B. Wells Middle School in Washington, D.C. We see you wolves. Have an awesome day, everyone. And I`ll see you right   back here tomorrow on the 10. END 

Date: 2024-04-11
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, sunshine. Welcome back to CNN 10. It`s April 11th, and a random thought Thursday. Heat, pressure and time, the three things that make a diamond are also the three things that make a waffle.  I`m Coy Wire. Let`s eat. The Biden administration has set the first ever national standard to limit forever chemicals in our drinking water. These chemicals are officially   known as PFAS, spelled out PFAS. A government study found they`re present in nearly half of the United States drinking water.  These forever chemicals can stick around in our environment and in our bodies. They are linked to a variety of health problems that include   cancer, thyroid disease, reproductive problems, and heart and liver damage.  The CDC says these chemicals can be found in the blood of nearly 97 percent of Americans. This regulation is designed to reduce exposure to these   chemicals for about 100 million people across the United States. The plan targets five specific types of chemicals and sets strict limits for them.  Water treatment facilities have three years to start testing, and another two years to implement technology to filter out these chemicals. The   federal government has set aside a billion dollars to do it. So what does this all mean for you and me? CNN`s Dr. Sanjay Gupta has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: You may have never heard of PFAS, but you`re likely to have these potentially dangerous chemicals   inside your body. Perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl are substances that are known as forever chemicals.  These synthetic chemicals were developed in the 1940s that are used to repel oil and water. They make consumer items non-stick and waterproof,   stain resistant, and they`re found in many products you likely use. It`s not obvious, non-stick cookware, waterproof clothing, but also in things   you may not necessarily realize, dental floss, pizza boxes, microwave popcorn bags, even makeup and sunscreen.  Now over the last several decades, these chemicals have been developed at this breakneck pace with now more than a 9,000 PFAS related chemicals to   date. And again, they`re called forever chemicals because they don`t break down completely, meaning the same properties that make these chemicals so   durable also make them extremely hard to get rid of, meaning they accumulate in the environment, in animals, and yes, they accumulate in us,   humans.  Thousands of communities across the United States have drinking water that is contaminated with PFAS and as a result, more than 200 million Americans   could have toxic PFAS in their drinking water, according to the Environmental Working Group.  And here`s the thing: nearly all people have measurable level of PFAS in their bodies. In fact, it`s estimated that 98 percent of the U.S.   population has some level of PFAS contamination and individuals exposed on a regular basis to chemicals build up cumulatively.  I want to be clear. These are relatively early days, and we still don`t fully understand the extent of the threat posed by these chemicals. PFAS   have been linked to cancer and kidney and liver damage and other serious health problems and people with prolonged exposure. As for reversing, the damage that has already been done, large treatment is expensive at scale. It`s even harder, if not impossible, to remove PFAS   from soil or the environment. But here`s what you can do until a cheaper, more effective solution is found. You can avoid stain and water resistant products and sprays. If you   order delivery or take out the restaurants, remove your food for takeout containers before reheating. In cooking at home, steer clear of non-stick   cookware and filter your drinking water with activated carbon or reverse osmosis, if possible. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Who`s going to get it? Which Founding Fathers appeared on the first U.S. postage stamps?  Washington and Jefferson, Washington and Franklin, Adams and Franklin, or Washington and Adams? If you said George Washington and Benjamin Franklin, go ahead and put your hands up. The 5 cents stamp depicting Franklin and 10 cent depicting   Washington became valid for use in the U.S. in the year 1847.  We`ve got news in the world of snail mail. Stamp prices are set to rise, again. The U.S. Postal Service is bumping up the price of the first class   forever stamp by a nickel. The cost is increasing from 68 cents to 73. If you`re thinking that`s a lot, you`re right. Since 2019, the cost has shot   up by 36 percent. So if you paid a dollar to send something five years ago, you`d be paying $1.36 today.  The Postal Service says this price hike is designed to get the post office on better financial footing. They added that the prices though remain among   the most affordable in the world. The 5 cent increase doesn`t kick in until July and still requires regulatory approval. With today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, we`re shining some light on all the animals that were suddenly in the dark during Monday`s eclipse. They   didn`t know what was going on.  Our Ed Lavandera reports from the Dallas Zoo. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ED LAVANDERA, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It was like momentarily walking into the classic comedy "Night at the Museum," a glimpse into the   secret lives of animals at the Dallas Zoo when humans aren`t around to watch. Zebra started chasing him and then the ostriches got into the mix as well. Just as the zoo slipped into total darkness, a jolt of, well, animal energy seemed to shoot through the grounds.  The moment mesmerized Lisa Van Slett, a curator of mammals at the Dallas Zoo. So did the total eclipse today meet your expectations? LISA VAN SLETT, ASSOCIATE CURATOR, DALLAS ZOO: It exceeded my expectations today. There was a lot more activity than I expected to see out of the   animals. Just before total darkness, an ostrich laid an egg and hovered over it for a time, protecting it. Zoo officials say it`s not clear if the moment was   caused by the eclipse, but that the timing was certainly curious, they said. Guinea fowl suddenly crowed wildly. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I can hear the - I hear the birds are starting, yes. LAVANDERA: The birds are getting louder. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yeah. LAVANDERA: Just before the moon covered the sun for almost four minutes, a young giraffe and its mother galloped around the enclosure. The zebras   joined in the chase as well.  Here and around the country, elephants grouped together and appeared to head back to the area where they sleep. Flamingos packed together in the   middle of a pond in their habitat. Primates apparently also thought it was bedtime. Animal experts say the sudden darkness triggered a natural reaction among many of the animals. VAN SLETT: At nighttime, predators go out a lot more, and so they have to kind of huddle together to be safety in numbers and in case something`s   coming, so they went into that instinct pretty quickly. LAVANDERA: At this doggy daycare in the Dallas area, this group of dogs seemed to stop, confused by the sudden darkness. When the sun returned, the   dogs started playing around again. Another video captured a cat wanting to come inside its home when darkness struck. At the Toledo Zoo, a polar bear didn`t seem to care about all the   fuss, nonchalantly dove into the water before the sun disappeared. Texas Parks and Wildlife officials teamed up with NASA to set up these acoustic recording devices to monitor the sounds of animals in the wild. But not all animals were flustered or impressed by the total eclipse. Tobogo (ph) the giraffe mostly walked around, unfazed, ready to start   chewing on the lettuce the humans feed him when the sun came back. (END VIDEOTAPE) LAVANDERA (on camera): Because a total eclipse is so rare, there`s very little documentation, very few studies that have been done on animal   behavior during a total eclipse. Because of that, zoo officials say they plan on sharing their observations and the data they gather, not just with   other zoos that were in the path of this eclipse, but as well as with other zoos across the country. Ed Lavandera, CNN, Dallas. WIRE: Apparently, the eclipse didn`t meet Tobogo`s nextpectations. He spotted the sun`s leaf of absence, but he`s used to long stretches of   darkness. So he was unfazed because he knew it`d come back lunar than later.  Today`s shout-out is going to Mililani Middle School in Mililani, Hawaii. Aloha, Blazers, and thank you for watching the show.  Rise up. Happy Friday eve, everyone. Shine bright today and going out and make someone smile. I dare you.  I`m Coy Wire. And we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2024-04-12
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, superstars? Happy Friyay. Let`s get our minds right, make the most of these moments, and soak in some knowledge   and information. Remember, what is within influences what happens without.  I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. And we start by taking you to experience the exclusive access we gained onboard one of the jewels of the U.S. Air Force   fleet, the B-52 bomber. CNN was the first news organization to be given access to a B-52 and its command center. We were onboard as the B-52 flew one of the longest military missions in the world, a 33-hour, 13,000-mile journey from Louisiana to Japan and back.   Boeing built the B-52 to carry bombs, and it can drop the widest array of weapons of any jet in the Air Force, including nuclear weapons. But on this   flight, the jet was unarmed. That`s because the point of this mission was deterrence, to show other nations, both adversaries and allies alike, that the U.S. is still the   preeminent force dominating the skies. The military began using B-52s in 1955, and many of the planes still in operation were built several decades   ago. And as you`ll see in this exclusive news report, these old planes can sometimes show their age. CNN`s Oren Liebermann has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: MYLAR11 0933 lander (ph) 330 --  OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Under the shroud of predawn darkness, flight MYLAR11 roars out of Louisiana`s Barksdale Air   Force Base. It`s the start of one of the longest military missions in the world, a nonstop 33-hour flight by this B-52 strategic bomber group to the   other side of the world, flying near Russia, China, North Korea and back.  LIEBERMANN (on camera):  As you can see, it`s dark outside. The cockpit has red light once again for the night vision here. LIEBERMANN (voice-over):  CNN is the first news crew ever allowed on one of these extensive B-52 missions. CAPT. BO "NATO" CAIN, WEAPON SYSTEM OFFICER:  Not only are we one of the most visible and flexible legs of the nuclear triad, we can have a B-52   where you need it, when you need it, within 48 hours. LIEBERMANN (voice-over):  These flights are intentionally high profile. Two years into the war in Ukraine, as Russia challenges the U.S. and NATO, the   Kremlin is meant to know about our bomber flight. So is China with Beijing pressuring Taiwan, and Chinese coast guard vessels harassing ships of the   Philippines, a U.S. ally. MAJ. GEN. JASON ARMAGOST, COMMANDER, EIGHTH AIR FORCE:  Both the national leadership of Russia and the national leadership of China, what do they   react to? We see that they publicly comment about our bomber task force missions, particularly when it involves others in very joint and public   ways. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Tanker1, contact. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Bomber1, contact. LIEBERMANN (voice-over):  Five hours into the flight, we had our first for aerial refueling is off Alaska`s coast, taking on as much gas as we can. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Keep track of your own fuel state. I`d like for you guys to be with us all the way to Yankee Zulu Papa. LIEBERMANN (voice-over):  After an hour of formation flying during this refuel, we arch out over the Pacific and towards Japan.  LT. REBECCA "VULCAN" MOORE, ELECTRONIC WARFARE OFFICER:  It`s important that we communicate to our partners that we mean what we say, when we say   that we`re committed to our alliances. That`s an example of what the B-52 does. We show up when we`re asked. LIEBERMANN (voice-over):  This 63-year-old Boeing B-52 Stratofortress, decades older than its crew shows its age but it remains the Air Force`s   primary bomber, taking part in every U.S. war since Vietnam with planned upgrades to its antiquated systems, it will see nearly a century of   service. This year, the U.S. began producing its next generation B-21 Bomber. China is close behind promising their H-20 strategic stealth bomber   will be unveiled soon. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Twenty seconds to the turn. Zero five zero. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Thank you. LIEBERMANN (voice-over):  Onboard MYLAR11, we passed by Russia`s East Coast, closer meeting up with U.S. and allied fighter jets. Our flight is   unarmed. Their mission is not to attack but to prevent attack, to deter. But this is a bomber of course. If we were carrying nuclear weapons, the   Air Force would monitor the flight and the joint nuclear operations center back in Louisiana. Seen here on news camera for the first time. It`s a 24/7   operation tracking all ballistic missile silos and airborne nuclear weapons. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You ready to fly? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Ready to fly. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  All right, your jet. LIEBERMANN (voice-over):  It is a marathon of marathons to put the B-52 and its crew virtually anywhere in the world. LIEBERMANN (on camera):  At this point, we`ve passed the halfway point of the flight. We`ve been in the air more than 15 hours. It`s the middle of   the day here in Japan where we`re overflying at the moment, en route to the mission area where we`ll meet up with fighters from several other countries   here, and carry out an exercise. LIEBERMANN (voice-over):  Here on the edge of the East China Sea, fighter jets from Japan and South Korea take up formation off our wings. Hours   earlier during our flight, North Korea testified a mid- range ballistic missile, a reminder of the threats in the Pacific. LIEBERMANN (on camera):  You want to be seen by both allies and adversaries. COL. MICHAEL MAGINNESS, COMMANDER, 2ND BOMB WING:  We want to be seen by allies and adversaries.  LIEBERMANN:  It is still a head turner -- MAGINNESS:  It is. LIEBERMANN: -- when you take it around the world. MAGINNESS:  It is. LIEBERMANN (voice-over):  But it`s China that the U.S. is watching most closely. In October a Chinese fighter jet intercepted a B-52 flying over   the South China Sea at night, coming within 10 feet of the bomber. By number of ships, China has the world`s largest Navy, soon have the world`s   largest Air Force according to the commander of U.S. Indo-Pacific Command. Beijing is rapidly modernizing its military including its strategic forces   and they`re not part of any non- proliferation treaty obscuring their nuclear assets. After 19 hours of flying and 14 more to go, a warning light signals trouble with one of the planes main engines. The crew runs through the checklists. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Throttles, number five. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Confirmed five. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Confirmed. LIEBERMANN (voice-over):  They make the decision to shut down the engine. There is no panic, just a management of risk. Nearing the 30- hour mark of   the flight, we see our second sunrise over Washington State`s Mount Rainier. LIEBERMANN (on camera):  And although the crew is tired, they all know there`s still a critical task ahead and that is getting the B-52 back on   the ground. And that is one of the most difficult parts of the mission. LIEBERMANN (voice-over):  On final approach, the B-52, which has been in the air nearly 15 hours longer than the longest commercial flight in the   world has one final surprise. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  One gear not down? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Affirm. Right main gear is not down. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Go ahead and emergency extend it. LIEBERMANN (voice-over):  Flight MYLAR11 touches down at 3:00 in the afternoon after 33 hours in the air, a mission that showed the abilities   and the age of a jet that remains critical to the Air Force. CAPT. JINAN ANDREWS, PILOT:  Despite how many years the B-52 has been running. She is a tough girl. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Pop quiz, hot shot. Which one of these insects are among the loudest in the world?  Bees, grasshoppers, crickets or cicadas. If you said cicadas, well done. These insects that can be as big as your thumb are known to produce sound up to 100 decibels. That`s as loud as the   revving engine of a motorcycle from just a few feet away or being next to a speaker at a concert. Did you know that this spring a phenomenon that happens only once every 221 years will occur? That`s right. Billions of cicadas are set to emerge. It`s   being called cicadapocalypse.  Why is this event so rare? Well, two different broods or groups of periodical cicadas, which only emerge every 13 or 17 years, are set to   surface around the same time. The noisy insects will populate the Midwest and Southeast of the United States for about six weeks, starting sometime   in mid-May. And even though the cicadas will be loud and maybe a little freaky looking, they pose no physical threat to humans or pets.  For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, we have a nautical vessel that takes the term houseboat to a whole new level. You are seeing a two-story home floating across the San Francisco Bay. It was one of several dozen houseboats forced to pull up anchor and set sail   after a local marina where they were docked, lost a legal battle with the state. Talk about peer pressure. They needed some anchor management. But turns out it was just a fleeting moment. The houseboat reportedly found a new permanent port in Sausalito.   Bleh. All right, mateys, let`s spread some good vibes this weekend. I`ll start by showing some love to our Trojan friends over in Sparta, Missouri, right on   fight on, Sparta Middle School. This is Sparta. And how about our huge shout-out to our Vikings at East Bridgewater Junior and Senior High School in East Bridgewater, Massachusetts. Rise up.  Don`t underestimate your power to make someone`s day this weekend. Remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire. We are CNN 10.   It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2024-04-15
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, everyone. Hope you had an awesome weekend. Spring is certainly in full bloom here in the South. Went to the Dogwood   Festival with all kinds of arts, crafts, and plenty of bouncy houses with my daughters. Even met some of you from Howard and Woodward here in   Atlanta. I`m headed up to New York City tomorrow to interview some Olympians for the show, so it`s going to be a big week. All right, let`s get to the news. And we do start with some very serious news out of Israel. On Saturday night, local time, the nation of Iran   launched more than 300 drones and missiles at Israel. Iran says the attack was in retaliation for a suspected airstrike, which they believe Israel carried out earlier this month against an Iranian   consulate complex in Damascus, which is the capital of Syria. That airstrike in Syria reportedly killed at least seven Iranian officials,   including a top commander in Iran`s elite Revolutionary Guard.  Saturday in Israel, the government reported that 99% of the projectiles that Iran fired were intercepted by Israel`s vaunted Iron Dome or defense   systems, as well as by defense systems from its partners, including the United States. Israel`s Iron Dome uses sensors and computers to calculate the trajectory of an incoming missile or drone, and then fires its own missile to   intercept and destroy that incoming projectile.  Saturday night, these defense systems seem to have worked, with Israel reporting no injuries suffered directly from an Iranian projectile,   although it is believed that a seven-year-old girl fell victim to shrapnel from an Israeli interceptor missile. The U.S. says no Iranian cruise   missiles hit Israel and no targets of great significance were hit.  This is the first time Iran has ever fired directly at Israel, and it sets a dangerous precedent. During a phone call, President Joe Biden told   Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu that the U.S. would not take part in any assaults on Iran, but reiterated the U.S.` dedication to the   country`s security. The U.S. is encouraging Israel to view the Iranian assault as a win because it showed the strength and ability of Israel`s   defenses.  Next up, we take you to the U.S.-Mexico border, where arrests for illegal border crossings were down slightly in March. The downtick is noteworthy   because typically there`s an increase in migrant crossings during the spring. But this year, Border Patrol arrested 137,480 people coming into   the U.S. from Mexico, a drop of 2.3% from the more than 140,000 apprehensions in February.  Part of the cause for the downturn, increased patrol and enforcement by Mexican officials on that side of the border. CNN`s David Culver takes you   on the ground to see how a change in policy in Mexico is making an impact on the ground. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DAVID CULVER, CNN CORRESPONDENT (on camera): You can see behind me here, there`s a huge gap in the wall. And this is where Mexican officials tell us   that a lot of the smugglers are either directing or bringing some of the migrants to so that they can easily cross.  (Voice-over): Which makes these rugged back roads the preferred and profitable routes for cartel-backed migrant smugglers. We`re about an hour east of Tijuana, driving with Mexican migration officials along the U.S.-Mexico border. But we detour after learning a   group of migrants has been rescued, as officials here say.  We pull up and find about a dozen folks who describe to me their attempts to claim asylum in the U.S.  (On camera): He said, he tried to cross, but Mexican officials stopped him from being able to go.  (Voice-over): That`s because Mexico is now stepping up its efforts to stop migrants from crossing illegally into the U.S. Mexico is now pouring   resources, like the National Guard and Mexican Army, in to help patrol and detain migrants like these. Eventually transporting them to southern   Mexico. DAVID PEREZ TEJA, HEAD OF THE MIGRATION NATIONAL INSTITUTE: Where we separate them by nationalities and then from them we determine the   deportation process. CULVER: What`s happening here goes beyond stepped-up patrols. In recent months, Mexican officials have built base camps, deploying troops to some   of the most popular illegal crossing sites.  (On camera): A smuggler`s van. Are there several of these vehicles just left abandoned and?  PEREZ TEJA: Like seven vehicles in total.  CULVER: In this area alone? PEREZ TEJA: In the area.  CULVER (voice-over): As we pull up, we realize we`ve been here before.  (On camera): We`ve seen so many people cross through this property. This right here.  (Voice-over): At this spot late last year, we met U.S. residents fed up with migrants coming through their land. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They can come through the front door. CULVER: Our cameras captured hundreds each day and night.  (On camera): That has stopped in recent weeks. And it`s stopped primarily because of what we`re seeing on the Mexico side of things. This is a remote   base on the border. You`ve got Mexican immigration officials. You`ve got National Guard. And you`ve got Mexican Army, who are here 24-7.  PEREZ TEJA: We have our fridge, microwave, coffee, everything.  CULVER: You have moved resources to live 24-7 on the border. Why is it so important for Mexico to be doing that? PEREZ TEJA: We want to prevent migrants to get in touch with the criminal group. CULVER: The number of migrant encounters reported by U.S. Border Patrol appears to reflect the impact of Mexico`s actions, dropping 42% from   December to January alone and seeming to stay low. But officials warn cartels and their smugglers frequently adjust their tactics and keep close   watch.  (On camera): They`re watching us right now. PEREZ TEJA: They see when we are patrolling and we -- when we leave a spot.  CULVER (voice-over): It`s a crisis that has also sparked uneasiness for Mexican residents.  (On camera): It`s gotten so frustrating for these folks in particular that a community got together, wrote a letter to their governor petitioning for   more resources. And it`s for that reason that you have, well, you can see right here, members of the Mexican National Guard who are now patrolling   neighborhoods like this one to keep migrants from coming through.  (Voice-over): Authorities here urge migrants to use the U.S.`s CBP One app rather than to risk crossing with smugglers. Like Mexican officials at this   location even help pre-screen up to 500 migrants daily for the U.S. asylum interview process.  (On camera): So he`s in communication with U.S. officials, on the other side, and they`re sending documents back and forth to make sure that they   have the right information.  (Voice-over): While this is a more orderly way to claim asylum, it can take a while to get an appointment. Marta Achila says she`s waited five months   for this day. (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) CULVER (on camera): So I asked why they didn`t go through the smuggling route, which so many choose to do. And she said that, for one, it costs an   extreme amount of money. And the other aspect of it for her was they wanted to be able to enter legally through the appointment and try to build a   better future there. (Voice-over): The road ahead is uncertain for both the migrants and for those protecting the border. We see that firsthand as we leave the remote   border camps.  (On camera): The reason we`ve stopped and then pulled over is because there are these spikes that we`ve noticed all along the different dirt roadways   that take us to the border wall. (Voice-over): Evidence of a smuggler`s desperate attempt to salvage their profits. There are dozens, if not hundreds of these.  (Voice-over): And while it slows them down momentarily, for now they forge ahead in their efforts to curb the flow of a migrant crisis that`s   consuming resources on both sides of the border. David Culver, CNN, Tijuana, Mexico. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten-second trivia.  How much does the New York Public Library charge for its daily late fee? 15 cents, a dollar, 25 cents, or nothing? Go on and do your thang if you said, nothing. The New York Public Library is one of several large library systems to get rid of late fees entirely to   encourage people to use their resources without the fear of a fine.  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, we`re taking a trip to a library in Fort Collins, Colorado, where a copy of the book "Ivanhoe" was returned   more than 100 years late. Reports say that the book was found in Kansas, and when it was returned, the last checkout date you can see was the year 1919. Good thing this   library doesn`t collect fines, because if it did, employees say the century-overdue novel would have racked up more than $14,000 in late fees.  You know, a book fell on my head the other day. I only have my shelf to blame. All right, bibliophiles, thanks for spending part of your day with   me. We are sending some love and good vibes to Seneca East Middle and High Schools in Attica, Ohio. We see you, Tigers.  And this shout-out goes to Monahans High School in Monahans, Texas. Let`s go, Lobos. I`m out tomorrow, but you`ll be in great hands, and I will see you right back here on "The 10" on Wednesday. Crush it today.  END 

Date: 2024-04-16
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hey there everyone, I`m Isabel Rosales, subbing in today for Coy. I hope you`re having a tremendous Tuesday and   don`t forget to submit your #YourWordWednesday before tomorrow`s show.  First up, let me ask you all a question. What do you think about having every Friday off forever? Well, that`s what some CEOs are considering for   their employees in the U.S. It is called a four-day workweek and some business leaders are thinking about implementing it to help their employees   with burnout or the feeling that some people have that they are overworked and ready to basically give up.  Almost a third of large U.S. companies are experimenting with either a four-day or a four-and-a-half-day workweek. That is according to a recent   KPMG survey of CEOs. The concerns here are obvious. If people work fewer hours, will they still accomplish the same amount of work? Well, last year, 61 companies in the U.K. participated in the world`s largest trial of a four-day workweek ever. And a year later, 90% are still   using a shortened workweek and half have said that they are making that change permanent. These companies say that the new schedules have benefited   their ability to recruit new talent and has helped improve people`s mental health without sacrificing productivity. But a four-day workweek may not be the right choice for every industry. For example, in the health care sector, where hospitals are having trouble   finding enough nurses and doctors to fill open job roles, some employers may not be able to afford to give everyone Fridays off.  Next up, we take a look at an infamous day in space travel, February 1st, 2003, when NASA`s Columbia shuttle broke apart as it fell back to Earth,   killing all seven astronauts on board. The disaster fundamentally changed the way NASA balanced its approach to safety and innovation.  Before the Columbia launch, some engineers were concerned about the shuttle`s safety, but sadly and catastrophically, they were ignored by   management.  Now, NASA requires what it calls safety days for its engineers, which means that they have to stop working on their usual tasks just to brainstorm   ideas about how to make the program safer. CNN`s Kristin Fisher has more about how astronauts today are benefiting from the insights learned from one of the darkest days in space   exploration. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Hydraulic return instrumentations.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No, sir. There`s not  KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Most NASA astronauts know exactly where they were and what they were doing when the   Columbia space shuttle disintegrated over Texas, killing all seven astronauts on board. WOODY HOBURG, NASA ASTRONAUT: I was actually in high school. And I was -- I was actually in the shower. STEPHEN BOWEN, NASA ASTRONAUT: I don`t usually turn on the TV to watch landings with my family, but that day I did. And after a couple of minutes,   I kind of shoot them, said, hey, you guys go outside and play. And it was clear something was not right. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Crew six astronauts and cosmonauts return home to earth. FISHER: NASA astronauts Stephen Bowen and Woody Hoburg returned to Earth in September after spending 186 days in space. Bowen, the commander of NASA`s   crew six mission to the International Space Station knew the Columbia crew. He worked the recovery operations and he was at NASA when the agency   determined that it was a well-known problem with pieces of foam falling from the external tank and striking the shuttle at launch, that ultimately   led to Columbia`s demise. BOWEN: That -- that moment really, really hit home FISHER: Since then, Bowen has been to space four times, including three shuttle flights. BOWEN: Safety over the past 21 years, I think we`ve worked at it, but as a continuous process. FISHER: When Bowen, Hoburg and two others attempted to launch for the first time in February 2023, on a SpaceX Falcon IX rocket and Crew Dragon   capsule, they scrubbed with just two minutes left on the clock due to an issue with igniter fluid. BOWEN: We later learned that it was actually a NASA person in the room who had made the call not to do that. And I looking back at it and thinking   about that willingness to say no, to stop, to say, we don`t need to launch today. We really appreciated that and that -- that`s an example of where   we`ve moved a little bit past, hopefully, the things that have gotten us in trouble in the past. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 3, 2, 1. FISHER: Now, NASA is attempting to return astronauts to the moon for the first time since the Apollo program. In January, the agency announced a 10-  month delay to the first crewed Artemis mission, citing safety concerns. One area of concern, the Orion spacecraft heat shield. The same protective   tiles that were damaged on Columbia. BOWEN: You know, it was the heat shield for Columbia, but that`s not necessarily the next thing that`s going to get us, you know? It might be   something else that we haven`t thought of. HOBURG: There is inherent risks and everything we do. And so we have to find ways to make sure that we understand what the risks are and mitigate   them, but then actually go fly.  FISHER: Kristin Fisher, CNN, Washington. (END VIDEOTAPE) ROSALES: All right, quiz time. You`ve got 10 seconds. What is the biggest museum in the world? Is it the Louvre Museum in France, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, the Vatican Museums at the Vatican or Tokyo National Museum in Japan?  The answer is the Louvre Museum in Paris. It covers more than 780,000 square feet and is home to about 38,000 pieces of art. And this next report, we`re going to take you to a museum where you can actually touch the art. That`s right. Mercer Labs Museum of Art and   Technology in New York City is not your typical museum with velvet ropes and strict security guards. Nope. At this museum, the visitors are actually   encouraged to come in and interact with the exhibits. That is because the Mercer Museum houses what is called experiential or immersive art. And as you`ll see in this report, it is easy to get lost in all the magic of it. (END VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We redesigned this place 50 times until we find the right layout and the right energy and the right message behind every step   and everywhere you go in the space. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Each room touches your sense in a different way. The whole goal is for people to really walk through, experience those things,   the sight, the smell, the touch, the feel. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The main hall, we have 26 projectors, so this room can be transformed to anything we want. You can see a film in 360. You can   experience sound in a completely new way. Coming in, you are part of the installation, you`re part of the art by walking in the space. I try to create a space that you`re standing there   and you don`t know where is the ceiling, you know, where is the sky and where is the floor.  We encourage people to come and touch the work and experience everything. You can touch everything. That`s the difference between what we are doing   right here and other museums as well.  I feel like today people need a little escape. I try to do something that can give hope. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Roy has about 50,000 pieces of content that he hasn`t released yet, so I think he has enough to keep this place exciting for --   for the next thousand years. (END VIDEO CLIP) ROSALES: And for today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, do you have a dog, and does your dog use their tongue to loudly lap up their water? In this   report from CNN`s Jeanne Moos, we meet one dog who takes diving into his doggie bowl to a whole new level. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Most dogs slurp, but 11-year- old Bella slurped her way to viral fame.  DAWN VERCELLI, BELLA`S OWNER: She just like romped over and started slurping out of the -- the doggie bowl.  MOOS: California resident Dawn Vercelli was on an important work from home video call.  JESSICA VERCELLI, BELLA`S OWNER: And my mom told everyone to be quiet. And then she started slurping, but then she just kept going.  MOOS: Kept going so long that Dawn`s daughter Jessica started recording it.  J. VERCELLI: You`re hearing my dog. MOOS: Commenters were in awe. Is it her first-time having water?  J. VERCELLI: I know. I think she`s just woken up from a nap. MOOS: The Pitbull probably had a little dry mouth. Commenters had solutions.  Note -- remember to empty water dish before next meeting.  D. VERCELLI: Now, there is a good idea.  MOOS: Jeanne Moos, CNN.  J. VERCELLI: You`re hearing my dog. MOOS: New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) ROSALES: All right, superstars. Now it is time for the shout outs. Our first shout out goes to St. Johnsbury School in St. Johnsbury, Vermont. I   see you Catamounts.  And our next shout out goes to the Tigers at White River High School in White River, South Dakota.  Thank you all for tuning in. I`m Isabel Rosales. It was amazing spending this Tuesday with you. Coy will be back in tomorrow.  Make it a great day.  END 

Date: 2024-04-17
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Welcome to Times Square in New York. With up to 450,000 visitors each day on the busiest days, this is one of the most   visited tourist destinations in the world.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And it`s Your Word Wednesday, so listen up to see if the vocabulary word you submitted helped us write today`s show. All right, let`s get to the news. A new warning this week from two scientific groups. They say record-breaking ocean temperatures are causing   a mass bleaching event that is damaging coral reefs around the world. Coral bleaching is where coral loses its color and becomes completely white. That doesn`t mean the coral is dead, but it is under significant   stress and has a higher chance of dying. This is happening in large portions of the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian Oceans, according to two   scientific bodies, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or NOAA, and the International Coral Reef Initiative. This would mark the fourth time the world has seen a major bleaching event. But experts are warning this one could become the worst in recorded   history.  CNN`s Zain Asher met one man who noticed his local reef was dying, and he wanted to do something about it. Scientists and professors urged him to get   a degree to learn more about the issue, but he couldn`t wait. At the age of 18, he found a few island brothers and sisters and started Coral Gardeners. Let`s travel to an island in French Polynesia to meet his   team. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ZAIN ASHER, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: This is Tahiti, one of three permanent ocean-based coral nurseries in Mo`orea. As Coral Gardeners, both   by company name and by profession, these sites are at the core of what they do on a daily basis. TITOUAN BERNICOT, FOUNDER & CEO, CORAL GARDENERS: Coral gardening is the coolest thing on Earth. You are underwater. There is nobody talking. You   hear the sound of the parrotfish, like the noise of the waves. You have those thousands of little coral fragments, and you have the fish. They   become your co-workers. It`s something so tangible. It`s such a rewarding feeling to see your tiny coral fragment growing. ASHER: First on the day`s to-do list is installing new underwater foundations, a task assigned to Gardeners Loic and Yohan (ph). BERNICOT: I think that`s -- that`s the most physical part. ASHER: Meanwhile, team members Hannah and Salome collect data from the nearly 6,000 pieces growing in this part of the nursery alone. SALOME CHAUVELOT, IMPACT MANAGER AND CORAL GARDENER: We`re looking at the overall health of each fragment for any signs of predation or disease and   bleaching signs as well. And then the last part is out of all the corals that are growing, we have a subsample that we follow and monitor for   growth. ASHER: Right now is also outplanting season, meaning there are healthy and heat-resilient coral ready to be relocated back onto the damaged reef. BERNICOT: I was with my buddy Maurete (ph), and we were planting those beautiful Pocillopora verrucosa, so the pink coral. We were choosing the   right spots, removing the algaes, placing the big mother colony of coral from -- coming from our nurseries. And then using the coral clips to attach   them, then marine cement. And it`s really satisfying. ASHER: And the cycle continues by refilling the nursery. BERNICOT: Let`s go collect some corals. So right now we are at the donor site, that`s the place where we are collecting fragments of corals coming   from big mother colony that are more resilient. They survived to all the last bleaching events. And the plan right now is that we`re going to place   on ropes in the coral nursery. ASHER: To preserve the health of the colony, they`ll take no more than 10%. BERNICOT: Taino (ph) and I will create a coral rope. That`s the process of coral gardening. We have the tag, nursery number two, rope number one.   That`s how we do all the scientific monitoring behind. ASHER: And they say on average it will take 12 to 18 months for those fragments to grow big and healthy enough to make it back onto the nearby   reef. BERNICOT: And there you go.  It was our dream one day to have a job where you get paid to be on the water and taking care of the place we love the most. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia.  Which of these cities is known as the City of Light? Marseille, Paris, Strasbourg or Bordeaux? If you chose Paris, then ooh-la-la, wee-wee, the capital of France is hailed as one of the world`s cultural and commercial centers and is often   referred to as the City of Light.  We are just 100 days away from the 2024 Olympic Games in Paris. I`m here in New York to interview some of the august athletes who will be repping Team   USA. You`ll hear from them soon.  But today we`re looking to Paris as it prepares for some 15 million visitors this summer to get ready. The city is restoring the Grand Palais,   one of its iconic monuments. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The Parisian skyline is filled with famous silhouettes. But this building, the one with the largest glass roof in Europe, leaves a   lasting impression, the Grand Palais.  DIDIER FUSILIER, PRESIDENT, GRAND PALAIS (through translator): The entire place of Versailles fits inside the Grand Palais. And the weight of the   complete steel here is heavier than the Eiffel Tower. It was meant to be a place of festivities, a palace where everything was possible. It`s made for   the imagination.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: In its more than 120-year history, this landmarked behemoth of iron, steel and glass has hosted countless art exhibitions,   equestrian performances and fashion shows, including perhaps most famously Chanel. But much of the building has been closed off to the public, and Paris now plans to restore and reveal some of the long-hidden halls of the Grand   Palais in time for the 2024 Summer Olympics.  In addition to reopening the galleries, the team is also restoring a view from the rotunda that no one has seen since 1939 by removing a wall which   separated the main nave from the Palais de la Decouverte. The final phase of the renovation will continue through 2025, but they hope to finish phase   one in time for the Olympic Games. FUSILIER (through translator): We hope that everything will be finished on time, to host the grand fencing and taekwondo events that will be held   here.  It will be -- it will be just here, in the middle, in the center of the perspective to see that. and the public will be there on the right and on   the left. It will be something very beautiful. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10. We have a near catastrophe that sent one feline flying through the air. A scaredy cat turned rocket ship is   perfection. Our Jeanne Moos has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: We`ve done stories on an enormous cat and on a slap happy cat slapping a judge at a cat show, but this blur across   your screen.  JULIA AMIDEI, OWNER, "FLYING CAT": This is the flying cat.  MOOS: Meet Remy, a Chicago area Bengal cat. Two-year-old Remy went behind some hanging coats. His housemate, Lucy the Cat, decided to come play. But   when Lucy knocked a coat off the hook, Remy went bonkers. The cat was fine.  AMIDEI: He landed on this. MOOS: An interactive cat toy. Commenters were awestruck, saying --  AMIDEI: My cat has wings.  MOOS: They called him the Michael Jordan of cats.  AMIDEI: But I`ve never seen him get air like that in my life.  MOOS: The dog of the house, Maggie, was singled out online for her chill reaction. AMIDEI: And just looks at my boyfriend like there they go again. MOOS: The stratospheric leap went explosively viral and many labeled Remy the very definition of a scaredy cat. But Remy took being jumpy to a whole   new level. Like Rocky, he`s going to fly. Jeanne Moos, CNN. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Thanks, Jeanne. And congrats to Ms. Amanda and the Olive Family Academy in Tomah, Wisconsin, for submitting the Your Word Wednesday winner,   "august," an adjective meaning respected and impressive. Well done. All right. Today`s shout out is going to Chinook Trail Middle School in Colorado Springs. Rise up. And we`re also showing some love to Queens Grant Community School in Mint Hill, North Carolina. Thank you for spending part of your day with us.   We`ll see you right back here tomorrow. I`m Coy Wire. And we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-04-18
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Welcome back to CNN 10 from Times Square in New York. This place is buzzing.  I`m Coy Wire. Happy Friday Eve. It`s Thursday, April 18th. We`ve got an action-packed show to fuel your mind with knowledge and information. We start on the Arabian Peninsula where two countries were hit by severe weather. In Oman, flooding ravaged the country. The government says it is   conducting rescue operations to save people throughout Oman and that they have closed schools and sent public and private sector employees home in   most parts of the country. Sadly, at least 18 people have died because of the severe weather. That same weather system also hit the neighboring nation of the United Arab   Emirates or UAE where four inches of rain fell in some areas of the country in just 12 hours. For a desert country like the UAE, that`s a year`s worth   of rain in just a very short period of time. This is a place that isn`t used to dealing with that kind of weather. The heavy rainfall led to   massive flooding impacting homes and businesses.  And in the nation`s capital, it caused massive delays and disruptions at Dubai International Airport which was recently dubbed the second busiest   airport in the world. Aircraft had to make their way through water and several flights were delayed or canceled. Our Chad Myers has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST: It was just round after round of thunderstorms here in Dubai, four separate rounds, it would come in it   would go in and come back again. And then it would go again. And look at the wind here not just heavy rainfall, but 99 millimeters in 12 hours   created this. Not only here on the roadways, but also at the airport, the world`s second busiest airport with 87 million passengers every year. So there`s the cloud   cover thunderstorm, another thunderstorm rolling on by. And now this weather is actually into parts of southern Iran and even into Pakistan. But here`s -- here are the numbers as we go, 99 millimeters in 12 hours, the annual average is less than that, which means for the entire year, they   should have picked only up about 94 millimeters. And we got this in 12 hours. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Next up, let`s talk inflation. The way we measure how prices go up over time and lately inflation has been rising. For example if you bought   groceries in 2020 for $100, today those same groceries will cost you around $125 due to inflation and that`s happening with rent prices, clothing, you   name it. And as CNN`s Veronica Miracle shows us in California which is one of the most expensive places to live in the country it can be especially   tough right now to make ends meet. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) VERONICA MIRACLE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): For math teacher Burt Dixon it`s the start of a very long day. Dixon lives three miles from his   school in California`s Bay Area, one of the most expensive places to live in the world. To live so close to where he teaches he works three jobs. (On camera): Right now did you think at this point in your career you would be working three jobs? BURT DIXON, TEACHER: Not really, I thought, you know, by this point in my career I`d be a little bit more financially stable. We had the highest   teacher salaries in the area and then slowly over time the salaries didn`t really keep up with -- with the cost of living. MIRACLE: Do your students know how much you work? DIXON: They know that I work at the Community College. I think most of them do but I don`t know if they realize that I`m also tutoring in the evenings. MIRACLE (voice-over): Dixon bought his home over 20 years ago. With his current teacher salary he says he could never afford the area today where   Redfin says the average home sold for about 1.4 million dollars last month. CLAIRE MCMANMON, TEACHER: This is all parish offices like on the entrance area. MIRACLE: Finding affordable housing is even tougher for those new to the profession. Six teachers live in this former parish that`s been converted   to a communal living space complete with a chapel.  Claire McManmon pays just a thousand dollars a month for her room. For a studio apartment in the area she`d be paying more than double that. MCMANMON: All of our rooms come with a bed and then most of them come with chairs.  MIRACLE (on camera): This, I`m getting the sense of like a dorm room.  MCMANMON: Mm-hmm, but like a little bit bigger and more privacy. MIRACLE: For you guys to be able to afford a place around here, is that a struggle?  BRITTA MARTIN, RESIDENT: Absolutely.  MIRACLE (voice-over): One potential solution to this housing crisis? Affordable housing financed with government assistance specifically for   teachers and school staff. Cities like Miami, Chicago and Los Angeles are also building developments like these. DANIEL ADAMS, MAYOR`S OFFICE OF HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT: So we`re taking a look at a brand-new unit, under construction. Insulation, the   light, the quiet. So this is the foyer. This is a two-bedroom, one-bath unit. So this will be dining and living, big windows. It`ll be   transformative. MIRACLE: Nearly 80% of public schools struggle to fill teaching positions for the current school year with low salaries being a key issue. MATT WAYNE, SUPERINTENDENT, S.F. UNITED SCHOOL DISTRICT: We`re in the middle of a national and state teacher shortage. We started this year with   21% of our vacancies unfilled. MIRACLE (on camera): What do teachers tell you? WAYNE: You know teachers talk about either the struggle to find housing or then the long commutes that they have to be able to get to their -- their   job. So this is a key strategy for us to be able to recruit and retain teachers and other staff in San Francisco.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz, hot shot. Where was the first recorded Olympics held? Britain, Egypt, Germany, or Greece?  If you said Greece, you get the gold medal. The first recorded Olympic Games were held in Olympia, Greece in 776 B.C. The Games were also a   religious festival held every four years to honor the Greek god Zeus.  All right, when you think of the summer Olympics, maybe you think of a gymnast leaping through the air landing a fantastic flip or a speed demon   on the track or in the pool. Well, this summer in Paris for the first time ever we`re going to see breakdancing as an Olympic sport. I caught up with Sunny Choi who will be   popping and locking representing the red white and blue at the Paris Games. The 35-year-old stepped away from a job earning six figures a year to   pursue her passion and she`s proven it`s never too late to chase your dreams. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Did you ever imagine that one day you`d be an Olympian breaking? GRACE "SUNNY" CHOI: I always wanted to be an Olympian, never in my wildest dreams did I imagine that I`d be Olympian breaking. WIRE: Would you say that breaking has helped you evolve and help you find more of yourself? CHOI: Honestly, like I was going through life just like a robot doing everything I was supposed to be doing for so long and it was breaking that   really turned that all upside down and made me figure out who I am, what makes me tick, why am I doing what I do, made me face like my fear of   failure, my lack of self-belief, so I attribute a lot of my personal growth and like who I am today to breaking. WIRE: Tell me about the job and career that you left to pursue this dream. CHOI: Yeah, so I was previously a director of global creative operations at Estee Lauder. I was comfortable. I mean, I was working long hours so I   don`t know how comfortable that is, but like financially stable and I thought, you know, I`m setting myself up to have a home and a family and   all these things. And then breaking in the Olympics got announced and I had to make a choice because I was working such long hours in my job. And it   just -- I wouldn`t be able to pursue this path the way that I wanted keeping that job.  I just like wasn`t allowing myself to dream so I was like, you know what, I`m going to allow myself to like have this childhood dream and see it to   fruition. I`m just going to give it a shot and whatever happens, happens. And I qualified. WIRE: All right real quick, just teach me a quick pop and lock or something. Give me something. CHOI: You know I feel like one of the things that we always do is like hand on the head and hand here and then like you cross the leg. WIRE: Oh, tight pants. CHOI: OK, never mind, then maybe just like this. Can you do that? WIRE: Yeah, I can do that.  CHOI: There you go. WIRE: Yeah, OK. And if I do that people will recognize game? Work on it. CHOI: You might need a little practice, but you`re getting close. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Give it like another five minutes, you`re be fine. WIRE: Yeah, I`m going to stretch out. CHOI: It`s just pants. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, the Memphis Zoo`s new baby giraffe named Fitz, who has an affinity for napping. Who can relate? There   he goes. Look at that neck bend, that head making that long, slow drop into dreamland.  Now baby giraffes can stand and walk within 30 minutes of being born. But Fitz, he`s often spotted just dozing off and keeping his eyes open is a   tall order, must be stretching his bedtime.  Next time you see someone dozing off like this, just wake him up and tell them, you Fitzing. All right, powerful people. I want to give a shout out today to all our homeschoolers out there because we don`t do that often enough. We want you   to know we see you and we appreciate you. And how about Coach Hood`s class at Southaven High School. Thank you for joining us from Mississippi. Go Chargers and Coach, we hope you have an   awesome season. And we`re sending some love to the Panthers at John Adams Middle School in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Rise up, everyone. Thank you for joining us today.   Let`s make this an awesome day. We`ll see you right back here tomorrow. END 

Date: 2024-04-19
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up, sunshine? Happy Friday, Fri-yay. I am pumped to finish this week strong with you, fuel our minds one more time   before we head into the weekend. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. We begin today in Indonesia, where officials issued a tsunami warning and ordered hundreds of residents to evacuate   after a remote island volcano erupted several times, shooting fiery lava thousands of feet into the sky.  Mount Ruang, a 2,400-foot volcano has erupted at least five times since Tuesday night. Authorities say recent earthquakes in the area triggered the   eruptions, which are getting bigger over time, spewing large clouds of hot gray ash into the air. Officials fear these multiple eruptions could cause   the volcano to partially collapse into the sea, causing a tsunami, as it did in the year 1871. About 800 villagers who live on Ruang Island have evacuated to a neighboring island. 270 million people live in Indonesia, an archipelago or   a series of islands with 120 active volcanoes. That`s more than any other part of the world. The Southeast Asian nation is situated along the Ring of Fire, a 25,000- mile stretch of seismic fault lines that curve around the Pacific Ocean.  Next, we head to Venezuela, where for a brief moment, there was a glimmer of hope that the country`s authoritarian leader, Nicolas Maduro, would   allow free and fair elections to happen in the South American nation. But after signing a pledge in Barbados last year to allow for legitimate   elections in his country, Maduro`s government has put up roadblocks, halting the march of democracy. Stefano Pozzebon has more on how the United States is responding.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) STEFANO POZZEBON, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): There is a new vibe in Caracas these days, nightlife has returned after years of economic   collapse. RAFAEL BRAUMANN, GERMAN TOURIST (through translation): This show is wild.  POZZEBON: The U.S. dollar has replaced local believers. And this year, Venezuela`s economy is poised to grow more than Argentina, Brazil and   Colombia according to the IMF. Only one person seems to remain unmovable.  As a new presidential election looms, Nicolas Maduro seems all but assured to cement his position even further. On Wednesday, the U.S. announced the   reimposition of economic sanctions against the Venezuelan oil industry after last minute negotiations collapsed. The sanctions were lifted in October when representatives of the government and the opposition signed an agreement that paved the way to free and fair   elections. But since then, that deal was broken several times. The opposition candidate, Maria Corina Machado, has been barred from running.   Her replacement, Corina Yoris, was also blocked by electoral authorities. Political activists have been detained including members of Machado`s team. Notably the U.S. maintained a special license for U.S. major Chevron, who   has been operating since 2022. And U.S. officials told CNN they will keep engaging with Maduro despite the reaction. NICOLAS MADURO, VENZUELAN PRESIDENT (through translation): If you want to hurt us, you`ll get hurt. We will grow with or without a license. We are   not a Yankee colony, nobody will stop us. POZZEBON: Renewed sanctions could hurt Venezuela`s recent economic growth, its forecasts and push more Venezuelans to seek better fortunes abroad.   Venezuelan migrants are already reaching the U.S. southern border in record numbers. There are over 7.7 million worldwide according to the U.N. One   reason for last year`s detained was to bring those numbers down, particularly during an election year in the U.S. LAURA DIB, VENEZUELA PROGRAM DIRECTOR, WOLA: I do think that the engagement is indeed a better policy than maximum pressure and isolation that led   Maduro to further deepen his relationship with governments like China, Russia, Iran and Turkey. But rather I think that it`s a proof that, of   course, the U.S. and the international community and, of course, the opposition in Venezuela is dealing with an authoritarian government. POZZEBON: With opposition in Caracas is scrambling to rally around any viable candidate to challenge Maduro, experts will read this week`s fallout   will only bring the Venezuelan struggle for democracy closer to its end. And the music will fade once again in Caracas. Stefano Pozzebon, CNN,   Bogota. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz, hot shot. Which one of these days is known as Mexican Independence Day? May 5th, September 16th, October 12th, July 4th. If you said September 16th, you are correct. It`s not Cinco de Mayo, which celebrates Mexico`s victory over French invaders in 1862. Mexico actually   declared its independence on September 16th, 1810 after activist and priest Father Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla urged the Mexican people to take up arms   and fight for independence from Spain. Today in central Mexico, a popular tourist destination, Lake Patzcuaro, is under threat. Environmental factors and water theft had led to the lake   losing half of its volume since officials first noticed and began measuring its decreasing water levels. The local government says it formed a   commission to preserve the lake, and so far, that group has stopped the theft of nearly 160,000 gallons of water each day. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This video posted to social media shows that much of a popular lake in Mexico has dried up. Lake Patzcuaro, seen here in a   government tourism video, is a tourist destination in the western State of Michoacan. According to the local government, drought, deforestation, and   even water theft contributed to the lake levels dropping. Michoacan has seen extreme drought for more than a year. The lake has lost over 50% of its volume since authorities started keeping track, according   to CNN affiliate Televisa. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Up next, you might recognize this robot from viral videos jumping from scaffolding and making inverted flips. And now the company that makes   it, Boston Dynamics, has some big news to share. Our Jon Sarlin is on the story. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JON SARLIN, CNN DIGITAL PRODUCER: Boston Dynamics is retiring its most famous robot. In its farewell video, Boston Dynamics highlighted some of   Atlas`s most memorable spills. And demonstrated its impressive dexterity. Atlas, the hydraulic humanoid robot that leapt, crawled, and carried, has   starred in multiple demonstrations that have been viewed millions of times. But Atlas`s retirement isn`t the end of the line for the robot. The company has announced a new version of Atlas that is fully electric. The new Atlas   is noticeably more trim, and the company says it`s stronger and has an increased range of motion. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, is coming to us from Butte, Montana, where Viola the elephant has had it with the circus life. She   decided to take a detour through the streets of town, eventually grabbing some lunch behind a nearby business. The city says the handlers eventually   tracked her down and loaded her back into the trailer. Viola is now back with the circus and no one was injured.  All right, superstars, it is time to show some love. We are giving a shout out today to Mr. Snow`s class at Fort Branch Community School in Indiana.   It is a great day to be a twig, isn`t it? Rise up.  And to the Panthers at Payne Junior High School in Queen Creek, Arizona, we see you. Let`s close this week out strong. Remember to make someone smile   this weekend. You are more powerful than you know.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END 

Date: 2024-04-22
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, everyone, and welcome to the show. Hope you had an awesome weekend and you`re ready to make the most of this Monday,   April 22nd. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10.  And we start today in the nation`s capital, Washington, D.C., where the U.S. House of Representatives passed a $60 billion aid bill for Ukraine   this weekend. This coming after months of back and forth between both sides. The money will help Ukraine in its fight against Russia, who invaded   its neighbor a little over two years ago. The bill passed with a bipartisan vote, which is somewhat of a rarity in Congress. The final tally, 311 to 112. All of the 210 Democrats in the   House voted for the bill, along with 101 Republicans. The bill upset some of the more conservative Republican House members, including Georgia Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene, who has threatened   to oust Speaker of the House, Republican Mike Johnson, for working with Democrats to pass the bill.  The Speaker is the leader of the House, and they are voted into that position by other representatives in the House. But even though they`re in   charge, there`s a rule that if just one member of the House is upset with how the Speaker is performing, they can put forth a motion to vacate,   meaning they can make the whole House vote on whether to fire the Speaker from their position. Some conservative Republicans say they are upset about the bill because they want the money to be spent here in the United States, not abroad in   Ukraine. The Democrats and many other Republicans think the bill is vital to helping Ukraine, a democracy, fight against the authoritarian regime in   Russia. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN REPORTER: Of course, the White House made the ask for these additional funds for Ukraine back in October. The President at   the time said in an address to the nation that it was in the interest of U.S. national security, saying that it should -- no ground should be ceded   to Russia. But of course, the stalled aid in Congress only added to the urgency. And over the course of recent months, U.S. officials made the correlation between battlefield losses in Ukraine, arguing that that was because they   weren`t getting the funding that they needed and putting the responsibility squarely at the feet of Republicans in Congress.  Now, over the course of time, White House officials have been in touch with members of Congress and congressional staff working furiously behind the   scenes to see this through. And the President Saturday applauding that it has now happened and hoping that it crosses the finish line soon so that   aid can get to Ukraine swiftly. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Next up, we`re taking a look at the doom loop. No, it`s not some new roller coaster coming out. It`s actually referring to the effects of   increasing office space vacancies on cities. Post-pandemic, a lot of businesses don`t require their employees to come into work, letting them work from home instead. Great for some workers, but   not so great for the people who own the office buildings that rely on companies to pay their leases to rent space. The numbers show that a lot of   businesses are now getting rid of their office space. At the end of last year, one out of every five office spaces in America`s biggest cities were empty. And that`s leading to something called a doom   loop, which could hurt these big cities. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) STIJN VAN NIEUWERBURGH, PROFESSOR OF REAL ESTATE, COLUMBIA BUSINESS SCHOOL: In New York City, there`s currently about 90 million square feet of office   space available for rent, you know, including supply space. Just to put that in perspective, that`s about the size of 35 Empire State buildings. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Since the 2020 pandemic, office vacancy levels in New York City have risen above 20%, the highest level since the city began   recording them in 1984. NIEUWERBURGH: Everybody`s affected by this issue. Property values, office values have declined. That lowers tax revenues, and now cities have to cut   spending. You know, when cities cut spending, the city becomes a less attractive place to live and people leave. And that aggravates the problem. And we get   into this vicious cycle that I`ve called the urban doom loop. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Property taxes from commercial offices typically generate 10%of New York City`s revenue, or about $3.4 billion. One way the   city can try to recoup some of those costs and prevent a so-called doom loop is to convert some of that office space into alternative use, like   apartment buildings. PATRICK MADL, RESIDENT: I didn`t expect it to look so nice on the inside. When I arrived, I saw the outside. I said, this is an office building. I`m   sure there was cubicles everywhere, like just the process of removing everything. I can`t imagine what that looked like.  I did meet a friend. He actually worked here in the building. So I thought it was really cool knowing, like, I don`t know where your office was, but,   like, now my dog and myself, like, could have been my bedroom. It`s a 16- month lease, $4,700 a month. NIEUWERBURGH: Not every building is physically suitable for a conversion, or it might be very expensive. A lot of policymakers would like to have   affordable housings in these buildings. And the problem is that the math often does not work out. These conversions are not viable if we force too much affordable housing into them, unless we can subsidize these affordable housing units. And   that`s where a lot of cities are currently going. They`re trying to subsidize through taxes, for example, reduction in property taxes for these   conversions. RICHARD COLES, FOUNDER & MANAGING PARTNER, VANBARTON GROUP: The sort of underbelly, if you will, of the doom loop is the demise of the urban   center. We, being a developer, kind of view it a little bit more optimistically. And it`s a moment of reinvention. NIEUWERBURGH: The doom loop is also not inevitable. It depends on the responses that the policymakers have to the problems. And many cities have   already passed legislation that stimulates conversion of office to apartment buildings. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Ten-second trivia. What was the most popular car sold in the United States last year?  Ford F-Series trucks, Toyota RAV4, Tesla Model Y, Honda CR-V. Go on and toot your own horn if you said Ford F-Series. That`s right. That is the correct answer.  For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10. We`re taking a road trip, vicariously, of course, through Pelumi Nubi, a super adventurous traveler   who decided to pack up her tiny car and make the nearly 5,000-mile drive from London, England, to Lagos, Nigeria, in Africa, all by herself. She   slept in the car, cooked her food in there as she journeyed through the city and desert, all in the name of adventure. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PELUMI NUBI, GLOBAL TRAVELER: I`m solo driving from London to Lagos. Everyone`s asking me, do I have a 4x4 car? Am I using a 4x4 car? No, I`m   using a normal car. LARRY MADOWO, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: This is Pelumi Nubi. She`s a global traveler, and she just completed her most daring road trip yet, a   drive from London to Lagos in her regular car, a Peugeot 107 that she`s had for five years. NUBI: London to Lagos loading, we are in France, guys. We made it. Well, it is my baby, that`s what I call it. I`ve never seen anyone do it like this, and it`s just important for me to make use of what I had, so I   went for it. I want to show it`s possible for black women like myself to seek adventure. MADOWO: For Pelumi, that adventure involved traveling through around 17 countries, including France, Morocco, Senegal, and Sierra Leone. I have like a flat layout bed, so you can literally sleep in it. For quick meals, you know, I can just cook up something, noodles, all of that stuff.   And to wash and stuff like that. I stayed in like a lot of camping sites as well that had facilities to like, you know, freshen up and all of that. We   made it to the Sahara Desert. We made it to Sierra Leone. Borders, out of all my trials and tribulations, was the sore in my side. Like it was so difficult crossing. Liberia border, I had to sleep there for   two days. So yeah, it`s been lots of lessons. You know, patience, endurance, you know, being knocked down and standing up again. I had a car   accident in Ivory Coast. So that was something you don`t plan for. It was bad. I guess if it was in the U.K., the car probably be considered a write-off. Everybody when they saw the videos and photos, they`re like, that`s it. The trip is over, you can`t go. But I was just so determined. We are about to   hit the finale. Yay! Drum roll, please. MADOWO: After finally arriving in Lagos, 68 days after leaving London, Pelumi, who was born in Nigeria, was gifted a new car and an apartment by   Lagos` state governor and made a tourism ambassador. NUBI: We really need to just own our own, take ownership of what we want to do with our lives. So go for it. As black young girls, do brave things.   Step out of your comfort zone and be daring. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: That is some serious determination and dedication and inspiration.  Shout out to all the darts in Kaysville, Utah, who are joining us from Davis High School today. Thank you for all of your determination and   dedication. And this shout out goes to Johnson Junior High School in Cheyenne, Wyoming. Firebirds got us feeling kind of fly. Go on out and dominate this   Motivation Monday. As the wise Yoda once said, do or do not. There is no try.  I`m Coy. This is CNN 10, and I`ll see you right back here tomorrow. Rise up. END 

Date: 2024-04-23
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, everyone. Terrific Tuesday to you. Time to get our minds right so we can shine bright.  I have a challenge for you. See who can say red leather, yellow leather five times really fast. Red leather, yellow leather. Red leather, yellow   leather. Like that. It`s not easy. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we start today in New York. Columbia University has announced that all classes must be held virtually on Monday.   This after pro-Palestinian protests in and around the New York City campus have raised tensions on the campus.  Last week, Columbia President, Minouche Shafik, sent a letter to New York Police Department requesting that they remove people who had created an   encampment on the south lawn of the Manhattan campus. More than 100 people were arrested. The students are protesting U.S. involvement in Israel`s bombing of Gaza, which has killed more than 34,000   people. According to the enclave`s health ministry. Israel says it is fighting to defeat Hamas, a Palestinian terrorist organization located in Gaza that attacked Israel on October 7th, killing   around 1,200 people. The students at the Ivy League University distanced themselves from more extreme non-student protesters who have tried to   intimidate Jewish students.  The White House, New York Governor Kathy Hochul and New York City Mayor Eric Adams have condemned any acts of anti-Semitism or any calls for   violence against Jews. Additionally, Monday was the first night of Passover, one of the holiest days in the Jewish calendar. Our Polo Sandoval has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: All weekend long we have seen demonstrations supporting the Palestinian people both on and off the   Columbia University campus here in Manhattan. Behind me, the one that`s actually off campus, you see students able to only make their way up to the   fence as the campus itself remains restricted with access only allowed for students and staff because of these ongoing demonstrations.  On campus, there is still what`s referred to as the Gaza Solidarity Encampment that continues to grow. A collection of people that have been   gathering on the campus south lawn with that unified message, with those protesters on the outside of the campus calling on Columbia University to   divest from companies with Israeli connections.  The question now though is exactly how long those protesters will be allowed to remain on the Columbia University given that it was just a few   days ago. The university officials called on the NYPD to make their way onto campus to clear out that encampment which resulted in well over 100   arrests and some student suspensions. The question is, are we bound to see that yet again? Now, over the weekend, I had an opportunity to visit that encampment and things were peaceful as security looked on and really university officials   not really intervening at this point. But also over the weekend, a separate vein in which there are now growing concerns among Jewish students, some   Jewish students attending Columbia University, many of them saying that they feel unsafe coming to school because of these ongoing pro-Palestinian   protests.  So much so that Rabbi Elie Buechler with Columbia University`s Orthodox Union Jewish Learning Initiative reached out on Sunday morning to well over   300 Jewish students saying that it is best that they simply stay home until Columbia University and the YPD do more to make sure that they feel safe. Now the university for its part released a statement over the weekend saying that they are acting on these concerns. And they also added that   students do have the right to protest on campus so long as those demonstrations do not interfere with campus operations. And also that they   do not intimidate any of their fellow students. Polo Sandoval, CNN, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia.  Which of the following are not considered debris in orbit around the Earth?  Old spacecraft pieces, rocket fragments, dropped tools, working satellites. If you chose working satellites, you are cosmically correct. Space waste is any debris left behind by humans like an inactive satellite or tools   dropped by astronauts. A working satellite, not considered debris. There are thousands of pieces of space junk floating above our heads right now up in outer space. We are talking rocket parts, broken down satellites,   pieces of satellites that may have collided and much, much more.  In 2021, NASA threw out 5,800 pounds of garbage from the space station and the belief was that it would burn up as it entered the Earth`s atmosphere.   But as CNN`s Alex Marquardt explains, things have not gone as exactly as planned. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: When it comes to Earth`s orbit, scientists are saying that cosmic clutter, as it`s known, is   getting worse. Space trash, broken satellites or leftovers from rocket boosters as well as junk from the space station. That`s all a growing   problem, they say. NASA estimates about 100 million pieces of space junk are hovering over our heads as we speak.  On Monday, NASA confirmed that this piece of space junk, which reentered the Earth`s atmosphere and came crashing into a home in Florida last month,   was trash from the International Space Station.  Joining me now is Terry Virts, former NASA astronaut and a retired U.S. Air Force colonel. Colonel, thanks so much for joining us. Isn`t the   expectation that this trash is just going to burn up upon reentry so that it doesn`t hurt anyone? COL. TERRY VIRTS (RET.), FORMER NASA ASTRONAUT: Well, that`s the hope and NASA had done analysis on this piece that they thought it would burn out.   But if you look at it, I remember seeing it. It`s basically the size of an SUV. So I remember thinking, wow, that`s a pretty big thing. I bet you   parts of it will -- will make it through. And a lot of space debris does make it down to earth. Usually it ends up in the mountains or usually it`s   in the ocean. And so this one was just so big and unfortunately it landed at a house in Naples, Florida. MARQUARDT: So I think that the common sense, the conventional wisdom was that most of this stuff just does burn up. Are you saying that that is not   normally the case? Why is the best way then of getting rid of this trash to throw it overboard if so much of it gets through? VIRTS: Well, the best way is not, and NASA`s plan was not to do that, but there was a Russian Soyuz explosion a few years ago and that really --   there was a snowball effect on the schedule and so this giant battery, like I said the size of an SUV was supposed to come back on one of our cargo   ships. And because the schedule got reworked, it was like the odd man out, so they didn`t have anything to do with it. So they released it after   analyzing, hoping that it would not make it back to earth. And you know what, luckily, knock on wood, it didn`t hurt anybody, but it did   unfortunately go through the roof of that house. MARQUARDT: So if you`re NASA or another space program, even a private space program, I imagine it`s in all their interests to try to get this stuff   cleaned up essentially. So how do you go about cleaning up 100 million pieces of space trash? VIRTS: Well, unfortunately, nobody has come up with that solution. If you - - excuse me, if you could come up with that solution, that would be a pretty good business model. These pieces are going many miles per second.   They`re all going in different directions. It`s a tough problem. What we`re doing is we`re just trying to avoid it. So when I was on the space station as commander in 2015, we actually had to maneuver to avoid some debris that the Chinese had created. They did a   military demonstration. They exploded a satellite, and that debris still causes a space station to maneuver usually once or twice a year. So   military explosions and space are really, really bad idea because that debris will last for years, or sometimes centuries if that`s high enough.   And the only thing you can really do is track it and maneuver to avoid it. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Next up, we take you to the capital of the Netherlands, Amsterdam, where local officials have a kind of weird request. They want fewer   tourists to visit. The local government has stopped the building of any new hotels to discourage what they call overtourism. Why? They say they want to   make the city more livable for residents and for visiting out of towners.  Now, there are some workarounds. If you already had a permit to build a hotel before the government issued this announcement, you`re good to go. Or   if a hotel closes or a new hotel has plans that maybe make it substantially better, for example, more eco-friendly, then the government may issue a   permit to build a new hotel. Officials say this plan is part of a larger goal to keep the number of hotel stays in the city below 20 million per   year. For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, the world`s largest wildlife crossing. This, according to the California Department of Transportation,   which is constructing a wildlife crossing that will span 10 lanes of Los Angeles County`s 101 Freeway. The pathway received more than 5,000   individual contributions and should be finished sometime next year. It`ll provide safe crossing to coyotes, bobcats, deers, snakes, lizards, toads, even ants, but mountain lions will be among its chief beneficiaries.   They`ll be able to safely pass from the Santa Monica Mountains on one side into the Semi Hills of the Santa Susana Mountain range on the other. All right, superstar, we are pumped for #YourWordWednesday. Follow me @coywire on Instagram, Snapchat and TikTok. Put your unique vocabulary word   and definition in the comment section of my most recent post. And we`re going to choose a winner to work in tomorrow`s show, along with a shout out   for you and your school.  We are giving a shout out to the Patriots at Patriot Center in Emmett, Idaho. Thank you for learning with me. And thanks for all the love.  And this shout out goes to DelSesto Middle School in Providence, Rhode Island. Go on, Jaguars, do your thing. Rise up. Go on out and make it an   awesome day, everyone.  And I`ll see you right back here tomorrow on CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-04-24
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up, sunshine? I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. We`re just halfway through the week, but we`re going to keep on grinding   and shining, because that`s what we do.  Today is #YourWordWednesday. So listen up to see if the vocab word you submitted helped us write today`s show. First we head to Washington, D.C., where the Senate is on track to pass a $95 billion foreign aid package this week. That`s after the House passed it   over the weekend. The bill contains nearly $61 billion in aid for Ukraine, which is defending itself against a Russian invasion. It also provides   billions of dollars for Israel and Taiwan.  Democrats and moderate Republicans have been unable to pass an aid package for Ukraine for months because of objections from some conservative   Republicans who say they want that money to be spent here in the United States. But now, Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer says Congress is   ready to take the next step and get America`s European ally the support, he says it desperately needs. CNN`s Fred Pleitgen breaks down how the U.S. money will be spent in Ukraine. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): Russian troops advancing in a heavy firefight in eastern Ukraine. This   video from Russian military TV claiming to show Ukrainian soldiers having to surrender. Ukraine`s howitzers often unable to support their frontline   units, severely lacking 155-millimeter artillery shells. But now, they hope that will change.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): We will defend ourselves and counter attack.  PLEITGEN (voice-over): Kremlin-controlled media seething after the House passed the Ukraine aid bill, while praising Republican Representative   Marjorie Taylor Greene for trying to derail it. OLGA SKABEEVA, RUSSIAN TV ANCHOR (through translator): Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene who "New York Post" already dressed in a ushanka hat   with a star, officially putting her in the ranks of Kremlin agents, called Speaker Johnson a Democrat elected by Ukraine.  Greene also said that Johnson betrayed not only Republicans, but the whole of the USA. Nonetheless, the U.S. military aid will be bigger this year   compared to the past years. And of course, there is nothing good in that. PLEITGEN (voice-over): Russia`s foreign minister going even further, threatening nuclear confrontation. SERGEY LAVROV, RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTER (through translator): Westerners are teetering dangerously on the brink of a direct military clash between   nuclear powers, fraught with catastrophic consequences, particularly that it`s the troika of Western nuclear states that are among key sponsors of   the criminal Kyiv regime. PLEITGEN (voice-over): Ukraine is in desperate need of lots of artillery ammo. Kyiv says badly outgunned by Vladimir Putin`s forces. But also air   defense missiles with Russia drastically escalating its missile and drone campaign against Ukraine cities and power plants. Ukraine`s President   saying he is grateful for the aid, but the weapons need to come fast. VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): The time between political decisions and inflicting real defeats on the enemy at the   front, between the approval of the aid package and providing the strength to our guys, this should be reduced to a minimum. PLEITGEN (voice-over): And the Ukrainians hope U.S. aid will arrive quickly and change the tune on the battlefield, allowing Kyiv`s forces to stop   further Russian advances. Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Kyiv. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: All right. Do you ever get that spinning wheel of death on your phone, so you try restarting it, hoping it will reboot? Well, imagine doing   that to a computer from the 1970s located 15 billion miles from Earth. That`s what a team of NASA scientists did to Voyager 1, a spacecraft launched in 1977 to gather data from the deepest recesses of our universe.   Voyager 1 and its twin, Voyager 2, were only meant to last five years, but they`ve been sending back data from outer space for 46 years now. Or at   least Voyager 1 had been sending back information until the end of 2023, when the space probe began experiencing some issues and sent a bunch of   code that scientists just couldn`t figure out. Now, after some long-distance troubleshooting, NASA says Voyager 1 is operational again and sending usable information again for the first time   in five months.  Next we head to Minnesota, where a driver is thanking a group of good Samaritans for saving his life. He survived with only superficial injuries   after fellow motorists saw an accident on the highway and jumped into action. Check it out. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is the moment a driver was saved from a burning car on the highway in Minnesota. After veering off the road, the car hit a   light pole and caught fire, state patrol said. Drivers and passing vehicles rallied together to save him as the flames grew. After breaking the driver`s side window, they pulled him to safety. The driver was taken to the hospital, but reported no serious injuries,   authorities say. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Pop quiz, hot shot.  Which one of these is the longest river in China? Mekong, Yellow, Yangtze, Daling.  If you said Yangtze, you`re right. It`s the longest river in both China and all of Asia, with a length of 3,915 miles. It`s also the third longest   river in the world, right after the Nile and the Amazon.  What would you do if someone called your outfit gross? Well, in China, some young people would be thrilled, all because of a new trend on social media   where young people are competing to see who has the dorkiest drip. It`s happening on Douyin, the Chinese version of TikTok. Our Marc Stewart explains how this became a thing and why the hashtag gross outfit for work   garnered more than 140 million views. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MARC STEWART, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: For some young people here in China, what I`m wearing right now may be considered too dressed up, too   formal for the workplace. Part of a bigger online movement reflecting concerns of this current generation.  We`ve been scouring social media and essentially young people are wearing what`s being called gross work outfits. We saw a young man wearing a   flannel shirt and sweatpants, a young woman in pajamas and a bulky sweater. Business suits and high heels are out, puffy jackets and slippers are in. These videos that are circulating are going viral. It`s a reflection of   protest, bad bosses, low pay and long hours in the workplace. An extension of sorts of the lie flat movement, rejecting consumerism and the office rat   race.  It`s a statement about the rough economy here in China. In fact, if you look at government data, the jobless rate for young people was nearly 15%   in December 2023. Many young people don`t feel optimistic. Some of the postings online have messages such as my ugly outfit matches my salary. And   how gross my work is, how gross will my outfit be? We`ve seen generations express themselves through art, music and writing. And for the current moment here in China, fashion. Marc Stewart, CNN,   Beijing. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a youngster with a fastidious approach to his craft. Checkmate, Indian chess prodigy, Gukesh Dommaraju,   better known as Gukesh D, is about to become the youngest player ever to challenge for a world chess title. The 17-year-old grandmaster won the   men`s candidates tournament in Canada on Sunday. He`s the youngest player ever to win that competition.  Now he`s headed to the World Chess Championship later this year. If he wins, he will break Russian chess legend Garry Kasparov`s long held record   of being the youngest world champ. Kasparov was 22 when he achieved the title.  All right, congrats to Mr. Dolan and all the fine folks up in Archbald, Pennsylvania at Valley View for submitting fastidious, an adjective meaning   extremely or excessively careful or detailed. Well done, Cougars, and thanks for making us smarter today. Today`s shout-out is going to Mrs. Conner`s class at Northwest High School in Omaha, Nebraska. How you doing, Huskies?  And Ms. Dabb`s class at North Star Elementary in Anchorage, Alaska. Keep shining bright, North Star.  Thanks to all of you for submitting your shout-out requests on our CNN 10 YouTube page. We appreciate you. We hope you have an awesome day. I`ll see   you right back here tomorrow on CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-04-25
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up, sunshine? Hope you`re having a thoroughly thankful Thursday. Gratitude is good for the attitude. I`m Coy   Wire. This is CNN 10.  We kick off today`s show with some news that could be of particular interest to a lot of us. TikTok could be one step closer to being banned in   the United States. President Joe Biden signing a bill sent to him by Congress that would effectively ban the social media app in America if the company that owns it   doesn`t find a new owner in the next few months.  Why is this happening? Because many American leaders say TikTok is a threat to U.S. national security. The app is owned by ByteDance, a privately owned   Chinese company. But in China, the authoritarian government often treats privately owned companies like they are government owned. Even though this   bill has been signed into law, that doesn`t mean that TikTok will just disappear. The social media giant plans to sue the U.S. government to block   the law, claiming it`s unconstitutional and violates free speech. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) LANCE ULANOFF, U.S. EDITOR IN CHIEF, TECHRADAR: TikTok is ready to fight. They`ll go hard and call on, you know -- they`ll say it`s a free speech   issue. But even so, say it takes a year to possibly find someone who wants to buy it.  And then maybe if the White House sees that there`s some progress, they can even give them like 90-day extensions. So between the court fight and the   extensions, it`s unlikely anything`s going to happen very quickly. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: So it could be up to a year before anything happens. But if ByteDance refuses to sell TikTok or if the Chinese government steps in and says   ByteDance cannot sell TikTok, then by January of next year, you might not be able to download or update the TikTok app in the United States. That   means you could theoretically keep TikTok on your phone and keep using it, but you wouldn`t be able to update it. So over time, it would probably get   buggy and start to get glitchy and likely stop working after a while.  Pro-Palestinian protests that started at New York`s Columbia University are now spreading to colleges and universities across the U.S. Fundamentally,   students are protesting how their schools invest their endowments or large pools of money that colleges and universities usually acquire through   donations. Pro-Palestinian student protesters want the schools to divest or take money away from companies that are either Israeli or involved in   Israel`s war in Gaza. CNN`s Isabel Rosales has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ISABEL ROSALES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Growing protests as students from Columbia University vowing to occupy school grounds until the   university meets their demands. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We are calling for divestment from Israel -- UNIDENTIFIED MALE: -- so that Columbia is not funding the genocide of Palestinians in Gaza. ROSALES: This, as calls for the resignation of the school`s president, Minouche Shafik, continue to get louder. Shafik under fire from both inside   and outside the university and could face a censure vote from the university senate as early as tomorrow. Shafik and other university   officials are facing internal criticism that NYPD arrests and student suspensions allegedly violated tenets of academic freedom and free   expression on campus. From Boston to Berkeley, there is a spotlight on how colleges are managing student outrage. Harvard Yard closed for a second day in a row. While at   MIT, a pro-Palestinian encampment stands firm in solidarity with other protesting students. The growing unrest on college campuses causing concern and chaos as schools prepare for graduation in the coming weeks. Many students saying they fear   for their safety. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It`s scary, it`s terrifying. They have a sign that says "Long live the Intifada." ROSALES: While others say they are -- UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Vehemently -- vehemently opposing all forms of oppression. ROSALES: They will not back down. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Until MIT agrees to stop building the weapons that are used in this mass killing. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We want the genocide to stop. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz, hot shots.  All North Korean Supreme leaders are: members of the Kim family, veterans of the Korean War, democratically elected, descendants of a royal dynasty? The answer is members of the Kim family. Three generations of the Kim family have ruled North Korea since 1948. Current leader Kim Jong-un took   power in 2011.  North Korea isn`t known for its exports, it`s known as the hermit kingdom because basically it willfully shuts itself off for most of the world.   Things like TV shows and movies from the United States and other Western countries are banned in North Korea. But what if I told you that some of   the very shows that North Koreans aren`t legally allowed to watch were at least partially created by North Koreans? CNN`s Alex Marquardt is here to   explain. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): "Invincible" is a popular animated show streaming on Amazon Prime, with a   third season on the way. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Your power`s got to be due any day now, son. MARQUARDT (voice-over): It`s based on a comic book about a superhero teen. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I wasn`t ready before. MARQUARDT (voice-over): While its main character is all American, some animation in the new season may come from one of America`s biggest foes,   North Korea. Martyn Williams is a North Korea analyst at the Stimson Center. MARTYN WILLIAMS, STIMSON CENTER SENIOR FELLOW: I`ll show you what we found --  MARQUARDT (voice-over): He shows us what was inside a recently discovered North Korean internet server. WILLIAMS: There`s a bunch of working files in here. MARQUARDT (voice-over): Files including sketches and video from North Korea, which resemble the animation from two shows produced and streamed by   American companies. Amazon`s "Invincible" and another, coming soon called, "Iyanu: Child of Wonder," set to stream on Max, which, along with CNN, is   owned by Warner Brothers Discovery. There`s no evidence that the studios knew that any proprietary work was on a North Korean server. WILLIAMS: At some stage in this production process, these files appear to being worked on by the North Koreans. MARQUARDT (voice-over): There`s a clip of "Iyanu" which hasn`t been released yet. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Now, let me spare your life. MARQUARDT (voice-over): Williams says a lot of American production work is outsourced, particularly to China, where it could then be subcontracted to   North Koreans without the American company`s awareness. WILLIAMS: It`s very common. Numerous Chinese companies have been sanctioned by the U.S. for working with North Korea, not just in animation, but in   other areas as well. MARQUARDT (voice-over): A draft of one animation has Chinese instructions translated into Korean. There`s also this production sheet in English for   "Invincible." (On camera): Is there any evidence that the American studios knew about this? WILLIAMS: We didn`t find any evidence that they had any direct knowledge of any of this. We found the names of some animations, we found the names of   some U.S. companies, but nothing that concretely tied that back to the U.S. companies. MARQUARDT (voice-over): Using North Korean labor would be a violation of U.S. sanctions. Max and the producer of "Iyanu" Lion Forge Entertainment   declined to comment. Unique Studios, which co-created the graphic novel series, did not respond. Skybound Entertainment, which produces   "Invincible," told CNN it never approved outsourcing and would investigate. WILLIAMS: It`s just something that`s very difficult to kind of figure out who you are working with because once stuff starts getting outsourced, once   stuff starts moving through the system, actually finding out who the person is at the other side of the keyboard is very, very difficult. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: All right, you`ve probably heard of Lava Cake, but have you ever heard of a lava lake? It`s just one of the amazing features NASA`s Juno   spacecraft captured when it did a flyby of Io, one of Jupiter`s moons. Juno has been studying the planet and its moons since 2016. It recently flew   within 930 miles of Io`s surface, taking high-resolution photos that NASA scientists convert into these animations.  It also captured this large peak that scientists call Steeple Mountain. It has been more than 20 years since a NASA mission flew this close to Io, the   most volcanically active body in our solar system. Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a TSA canine getting a hero`s send- off. Celebrating a doggone job well done after eight years in the field, Messi, a security canine at DC`s Reagan Airport, is just plain awesome. He   was the guest of honor at a retirement party where he was showered with affection and tennis balls for his years of faithful service. Good boy.   Thanks for your service, Messi, and enjoy that retirement.  All right, pawsome people, it`s time for our favorite part of the show. Shout-out to Rivermont School, Greater Petersburg in Dinwiddie, Virginia.   Rise up.  And this shout-out goes to Mr. Cardenas` class at Patterson High School in Patterson, Louisiana. Go on, Lumberjacks, and keep on chopping.  Happy Friday Eve. Thank you all for watching. We`ll see you right back here tomorrow. I`m Coy Wire. And we are CNN 10.  END 

Date: 2024-04-26
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. Happy Friday, Friyay. Before we head into this weekend, let`s fuel our   minds one more time with 10 minutes of news and a little bit of fun, too.  We first head to China, where U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is meeting with Chinese officials to discuss a wide range of topics. One of   the main things on the agenda, Blinken is warning China, do not help Russia ramp up weapons production, as Russia continues to wage its war against   Ukraine, which is a U.S. ally.  But that`s not all the two sides are talking about. Secretary Blinken is also discussing how China treats U.S. businesses operating in that country.   And China has its own grievances. It argues that America is trying to suppress the Asian superpower`s growth. China and America are kind of like   frenemies. They are the two largest economies in the world, each with massive militaries. But China is not a democracy like the U.S. It`s run by   an authoritarian leader, Xi Jinping. So the two sides` interests don`t always align. Still, cooperation is vital to maintain global prosperity and peace. That`s a key point that Secretary Blinken made when he spoke to a group of NYU   students in Shanghai. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE:  This relationship between China and the United States is one of the most consequential, one of the most   complicated in the world.  But where the balance really comes in, where we can make sure that we are talking to each other, hearing each other, understanding each other, really   comes through connections between students, business community, citizens across the board. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  And this meeting comes at a tricky time for the U.S. and China. America just authorized a foreign aid package that includes $8 billion to   combat China`s growing influence in Asia. President Biden also signing a potential TikTok ban into law. It requires the social media company based   out of China to find a new owner in the next few months or users in the U.S. will no longer be able to download it.  Next, we head to Kenya, where more than 30 people have died after heavy rainfall led to a series of flash floods that swept almost half of the   country. In total, more than 100,000 people have been affected by the severe weather. CNN`s Larry Madowo shows us the devastating impact in   Nairobi, Kenya`s capital. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LARRY MADOWO, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Where I`m standing used to be somebody`s house. All this area used to be people`s homes, all swept   away. What`s getting cleared back there, that debris that`s left over, that`s what used to be their homes. In these informal settlements around Nairobi, the houses are made of wood, they`re made of iron sheets. They`re very easily swept away when there`s   flooding like what was experienced.  It`s a cycle. If it`s not the flooding, it`s a fire, and then flooding and a fire. And it goes on and on and on. You see a lot of people trying to   collect whatever little is left of what their homes used to be, some iron sheets, maybe some valuables, trying to figure out how to rebuild their   lives after a devastating situation where every single thing they owned was swept away by these flash floods. JECINTER, AGUNJA, FEMINIST ACTIVIST & MATHARE RESIDENT:  Nothing has come from the government. We only help ourselves because nobody has come to the   rescue. You feel like you don`t come from this country, you are maybe inferior, because if it was somewhere else, maybe middle class or the   highest class, government could have responded asap. MADOWO:  Residents in these areas, informal settlements, or slums as they`re better known, often complain about emergency services not getting   to them during disasters. But here`s the extra complication. It`s starting to rain one more time. The Kenyan Meteorological Department has warned of   heavy to very heavy rainfall still to be expected. And the fear here is that that may lead to a new wave of flooding. Larry Madowo, CNN, Nairobi. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, next we take you to Dunsborough, Australia, where wildlife officials saved 130 pilot whales after a pod beached themselves.   Sadly, rescuers couldn`t save all of them. At least 28 whales died. Rescuers rushed to hold the animals upright to keep their blow holes clear before getting them back in the water. Experts say the animals can only   stay on land for about six hours before their health diminishes.  Ten-second trivia. Which of these foods items is NOT included as part of the National School Lunch Program?  Chocolate milk, bean burrito, potato chips, or cheese pizza?  If you said potato chips, you are correct. This is a tricky one. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, potato chips do not contribute to   any of their approved meal patterns.  Mmm, lunch time. What`s your favorite school lunch? I was definitely a pizza day guy, or grilled cheese day, or turkey day. There`s not much I   didn`t like.  Anyway, the U.S. government wants to make school meals healthier. The Department of Agriculture just announced new rules limiting the amount of   sugar and sodium in breakfasts and lunch that are served to nearly 30 million students K-12. The changes will be implemented in phases over the   next few years. By the 2027-2028 school year, added sugars can`t make up more than 10% of the total weekly calories for breakfasts and lunches. The same school year, sodium needs to be cut by 15% in lunches, 10% in breakfasts. It`s the first change to school meal standards in 14 years.  Today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, has a tentaclizing twist. Nine-year- old Cal Clifford wanted a pet. A pet octopus. And he thought he got one. But he ended up with a whole lot more. CNN`s Jeanne Moos has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  You may not think of octopuses as lovable, but this is the face of a kid seeing his pet octopus for the first time.   Nine-year-old Cal Clifford cried with joy. CAL CLIFFORD:  You didn`t have to do this. MOOS:  When his parents gave him the tank.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We`re going to build an octopus tank.  MOOS:  The octopus itself was delivered in a plastic bag to this Oklahoma family. They named it Terrence.  CAL CLIFFORD:  Terrence loves to welcome us every time we visit her. High- 8. MOOS:  As in high five, but with eight tentacles. Within weeks, Cal`s dad Cameron says --  CAMERON CLIFFORD, CAL`S FATHER:  We found out that he was a she. MOOS:  And Terrence, now Terry, started acting weird, laying eggs. But no one imagined they`d been fertilized. CAMERON CLIFFORD:  The uh-oh moment was definitely when the first one hatched. MOOS:  Hatched right in dad`s hand as he examined an egg. Cal got emotional. Getting a first look at the hatchlings, suddenly one octopus had   become many. CAMERON CLIFFORD:  Fifty.  MOOS:  Fifty babies, and each had to be cared for in a separate container. CAMERON CLIFFORD:  The babies will actually cannibalize each other. MOOS:  The baby`s got names like Jay-sea and his boo, Sea-yonce. The family learned that octopuses make for expensive pets. Leaks in the tank system   required vacuuming carpets and relaying ruined floors. It was all documented on TikTok. CAMERON CLIFFORD:  I wish my son`s favorite animal had been a hamster. MOOS:  Almost half of the baby octopuses survived. But Terry has died buried in the yard. Usually the mom dies after laying her eggs. The babies   are destined for educational institutions. As for Cal, he`s so into octopuses he even dressed up like one for Halloween. No wonder he was overwhelmed when I gave him his first tank.  CAL CLIFFORD:  Thank you so much. MOOS:  Thanks a lot, dad and mom. Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Safe to say that family will be pretty octopied for a while. If you`re looking for an octopus, you know who to call.  Our shout out today goes to Detroit Innovation Academy in Detroit, Michigan. Thanks for spending part of your day with us.  And Jim Hill Middle School in North Dakota. What`s up, Mr. Foltz? We see you, Mystics. Let`s cue that music. Rise up, everyone. Remember, you have the power to be the boost that someone needs this weekend. You are more powerful than you know.  I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END     

Date: 2024-04-29
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, and welcome back. Hope you had a fantastic weekend. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, the best 10 minutes of news, and I   don`t say that in a solipsistic way. I say this is the best 10 minutes of news because of all of you. Thank you for making what we do simply the   best. Let`s kick off today`s show with some news on South Africa. 30 years ago, an historic event took place in South Africa, the country`s first   democratic elections. This was a significant moment because it marked the end of apartheid, a system of racial segregation that ruled the country for   nearly 50 years. Under apartheid, South Africa was dominated by the minority white population, leaving its majority black population struggling for basic   human rights. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) CYRIL RAMAPHOSA, PRESIDENT OF SOUTH AFRICA: Apartheid was an ideology and a system aimed at controlling every aspect of people`s lives. It sought to   humiliate and to degrade black people. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Now fast forward to today, and South Africa has seen remarkable progress. There`s a growing black middle class and its education system is   more accessible. But despite those advances, issues like inequality, crime and corruption still remain. There`s a gap that continues to grow between the rich and the poor. Many people still struggle with basic needs like electricity and water, and some   black families are still fighting the long-term consequences of apartheid.  As we reflect on South Africa`s democratic journey, CNN`s David McKenzie takes us to the Rainbow Nation as some experts warn that a silent crisis is   underway. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: When thousands of students were bravely marching down these streets, they were fighting for a   better future for South Africa. But decades later, here`s a staggering statistic. More than 80% of Grade 4s cannot read. Has it gotten worse over the 18 years of you being at the school? PRINCE MULWELA, TEACHER, MORRIS ISAACSON HIGH SCHOOL: Yes, it`s becoming worse and worse.  MCKENZIE (voice-over): At Morris Isaacson High School, famous for its role in 76, teachers like Prince Mulwela say that jobs and education are given   to the politically connected, and corruption is rife. Primary students now come to his classes unprepared, he says. Corruption watchdogs call it a   silent crisis. MULWELA: We are living in a world in South Africa where it`s all about politics. Everything is being politicized. So the education system is also   being politicized. So that is the reason why probably we are experiencing such problems. ATLEGANG ALCOCK, STUDENT, MORRIS ISAACSON HIGH SCHOOL: I feel honored being in the school because then I get to learn about history. MBALI MSIMA, STUDENT, MORRIS ISAACSON HIGH SCHOOL: Some put their lives in danger for a better future, for better education. MCKENZIE (voice-over): I spoke to two leading students at Morris Isaacson. They are proud of their school, but acutely aware of the challenges that   lie ahead.  (On camera): Is there enough opportunity for young people like yourselves in this country? ALCOCK: Right now?  MCKENZIE: Mm-hmm. ALCOCK: No. MSIMA: It`s going to be a struggle, yeah, and it is scary for us to be sitting at home and doing nothing. ALCOCK: Especially when you know that you went to university for so long, and you have a degree, a qualification, but you`re still struggling to get   a job because of the unemployment rates. MCKENZIE (voice-over): Those rates are some of the world`s highest. An uncertain future, despite the bitter struggles of the past. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz, hot shots. Mount Fuji is the tallest mountain in which country? United States, Japan, Mexico, Nepal. Japan`s Mount Fuji was designated as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2013. Hundreds of thousands of people travel to the mountain each year.  Ah, Japan, a truly remarkable place to which tourists are flocking. When the nation reopened to visitors after the pandemic, this picturesque spot   in front of Mount Fuji became selfie central. Tourists routinely flocking to this convenience store to capture the quirky contrast between the   glowing neon lights and the serene mountain behind it.  But now, locals are fed up. They`re putting up a giant mesh barrier to make one of the town`s most iconic photo spots disappear. This is part of a   larger problem of over-tourism in Japan after the country experienced a record number of visitors in March. This is requiring the Mount Fuji area   to put new policies in place, such as daily limits for hikers and mandatory fees. Locals are concerned that the mountain could lose its prestigious status as a UNESCO Heritage Site due to overcrowding, erosion and the mess that   tourists leave behind.  Last year, CNN`s Kristie Lu Stout traveled to Japan to learn more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Human traffic jams on sacred Mount Fuji. VITO FUNG YIU TING, HIKER FROM HONG KONG: Very cold, just like a traffic jam. STOUT (voice-over): An ambulance en route to an injured hiker, litter on the mountainside. It`s a side to Japan`s popular tourist site that`s not in   the guidebooks. But for Mount Fuji ranger Miho Sakurai, it`s just another day on the job. MIHO SAKURAI, MOUNT FUJI RANGER (through translator): There are definitely too many people on Mount Fuji at the moment. The numbers are much higher   than before. STOUT (voice-over): Famous for its snowcapped volcano, Mount Fuji has inspired artists and been a pilgrimage site for centuries. Less than two   hours away from Tokyo, Japan`s highest peak attracts visitors globally. And in 2013 it became a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Overtourism has become a   big problem. This year, a post COVID tourism boom has brought thousands more hikers to Mount Fuji, according to a Yamanashi prefectural government official. The   environmental damage being done could cost Mount Fuji its heritage status, according to the local government. MASATAKE IZUMI, YAMANASHI PREFECTURAL GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL (through translator): Fujisan is screaming out in pain. We can`t just wait for   improvement. We need to tackle overtourism now. STOUT (voice-over): Volunteer take away tons of trash each year. Climbers are urged to donate $7 to help keep the mountain clean. But not everyone   pays up. And Sakurai says some behavior is even harder to control. SAKURAI (through translator): People of all experience levels come here, including first timers. We want to prevent accidents, so we give them   advice. STOUT (voice-over): The risk of altitude sickness and hypothermia has been increased by a trend called bullet climbing, where hikers begin their   ascent at night, pushing on until dawn, according to the Yamanashi tourism board. According to the local government, they start their hike from a place called Fuji`s fifth station, where the number of climbers arriving here   from Tokyo has more than doubled between 2012 and 2019. The local government also says it wants to shift from quantity to quality tourism. It says replacing the main road to Fuji with a light rail system   would be a more sustainable solution. SAKURAI (through translator): I`d be devastated if Mount Fuji`s World Heritage status was taken away. I wanted to have that status forever. So   we`ll do our best to keep it that way. STOUT (voice-over): But with no easy fix in sight, Sakurai will keep doing her bit to protect the mountain she loves.  Kristie Lu Stout, CNN, Hong Kong. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Has anyone ever just started ringing your doorbell over and over and over again? Not cool, right? Well, in today`s story getting a 10 out of 10,   it wasn`t someone ringing the bell. It was something. CNN`s Jeanne Moos has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT: We don`t mean to knock the do-it-yourself woodpecker door knocker, or even Woody Woodpecker himself,   using a finger to ring the bell.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Hi, neighbor.  MOOS: But both pale next to the real thing, making the doorbell ding. As far as we can tell, no one ever answered the door. The last woodpecker story I did featured a woman in North Carolina, ringing a doorbell to get   help removing a woodpecker tangled in her hair.  This isn`t the first time a woodpecker has been spotted ringing a doorbell. This one in Tennessee caused such a crack, the owner posted on Facebook,   looking for suggestions for a woodpecker-proof doorbell. And a woodpecker that rings a doorbell is no dumbbell.  Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: They`ll all be darned. Woody taking knock-knock jokes to a whole new level. Thanks for helping me ring in the week. And thanks to the Mariners at Mariner Middle School in Milton, Delaware. Thanks for showing some love.  And this shout-out goes to the Cougars at Cascade High School in Turner, Oregon. You rock. Rise up, y`all. Go on and make it an awesome day. See you right back here tomorrow. Same time, same place. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-04-30
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, and welcome to CNN 10. I`m Coy Wire, here with the news for you this Tuesday, April 30th. Already the last day of   April this year is flying by. We start today with the latest on a story that`s been growing and evolving over the past several weeks, pro-Palestinian protests disrupting college   and university campuses across the United States. At several schools, students have set up encampments to occupy main parts of campus. Some   colleges and universities have called in the police to help disperse the crowds, which has led to some students facing disciplinary action, as well   as dozens of arrests of students and faculty. So what do these protesters want, exactly? As we discussed last week, many colleges and universities have endowments, which are basically big sums of   money that they acquire largely through donations. The schools invest these endowments, and these student protesters want their schools to divest or   take money away from Israeli companies, from companies that work with Israel, or create weapons for Israel. The protesters say these companies are helping Israel in its war in Gaza, which has killed tens of thousands of Palestinians, according to the health   ministry there. Israel says it`s fighting this war to take out Hamas, a terrorist organization that runs the Gaza Strip, after Hamas killed more   than 1,200 people on October 7th.  CNN`s Rafael Romo has more about how colleges and universities are dealing with these protests as the academic year comes to a close. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RAFAEL ROMO, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): At university campuses across the nation, heated protests and some violent clashes between police and   pro-Palestinian protesters. MARTIN BERG, EMORY UNIVERSITY ARRESTED STUDENT: What I saw was unprovoked and severe brutality exacted by police. ROMO: On some campuses, as fast as the protests popped up, universities called police to shut them down by removing demonstrators, a move that has   been harshly criticized, and not only by those protesting. NOELLE MCAFEE, PROFESSOR AND CHAIR OF THE PHILOSOPHY DEPARTMENT, EMORY UNIVERSITY: The real problem here is that the administration called the   Atlanta police. ROMO: The University of Southern California has canceled its main commencement ceremony, citing new safety measures in place. Dozens were   arrested Thursday at Emory University in Atlanta, including Martin Berg. The third-year law student who`s expected to graduate in three weeks says   their protest was peaceful until the police showed up. BERG: Nothing was disrupted, and anyone saying that, you know, campus was disrupted, doesn`t understand what a campus is. A campus is a place for   open expression and exchange of ideas, and that`s exactly what folks were doing out there. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We are gathered here and we stand firmly. ROMO: But some Jewish students say that the last few months since Hamas attacked Israel on October 7th, and Israel began its assault on Hamas in   Gaza, they have been subjected to a hostile environment. ALYSSA ACHIRON, VICE-PRESIDENT, EMORY UNIVERSITY JEWISH LAW STUDENT ASSOCIATION: I believe everyone has a right to protest. The problem is when   it becomes threatening. ROMO: Others, like this first-year law school student, say tensions within the student body have made it very difficult not only to learn, but to   attend school altogether. AVITAL KESSLER-GODIN, FIRST YEAR LAW STUDENT, EMORY UNIVERSITY: We`re told that we don`t belong on campus because we don`t identify with their   movement. To me, that says that they don`t want to have a dialogue. ROMO: As schools get ready for graduation, they`re under intense pressure to bring the situation under control, and many students say that`s also   what they want. SUEDA POLAT, COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY STUDENT NEGOTIATOR: It is in our best interest to reach an agreement before commencement because we want students   and families to be able to celebrate this milestone together on this campus. ROMO: The volatile situation has also become a political issue, with leaders such as Texas Governor Greg Abbott blasting protesters. Students   joining in hate-filled anti-Semitic protests at any public college or university in Texas should be expelled, he said on X. KESSLER-GODIN: I truly do think that dialogue is the only way we as a society are going to be able to come together to truly create lasting   peace. ROMO: But in an environment where the rhetoric is so loud, the few voices calling for peace are getting drowned out.  Rafael Romo, CNN, Atlanta. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Next up, we head to Antarctica, home to a fascinating creature, the emperor penguin. Did you know that they can grow to an average of almost   four feet tall? They`re the tallest of all penguin species, but scientists are worried melting sea ice might lead to 99% of the emperor penguin   population dying out by the end of this century. But all hope is not lost. CNN`s Lynda Kinkade explains how these waddling warriors are adapting to   their ever-changing environment. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LYNDA KINKADE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Waddling and gliding through the Antarctic, some of these penguins have seen better days. The world`s   largest penguin species, emperor penguins, are severely threatened by climate change. Scientists from the British Antarctic Survey say tens of   thousands of emperor penguin chicks may have died as the species battled to survive record low sea ice in 2023. PETER FRETWELL, BRITISH ANTARCTIC SURVEY: We know that they breed on sea ice. We know that sea ice is one of the first things affected as   temperatures warm, ocean temperature, air temperatures, and we`re starting to see these losses in Antarctica now. Our models are quite dire. KINKADE: Dire because these penguins also lay their eggs and raise their chicks on sea ice. But with the ice melting away, the chicks may fall into   the sea before they get their waterproof feathers, leaving them to freeze to death or drown. Despite the recent losses, 2023 wasn`t as bad as 2022   for the emperor penguins. Scientists say it`s because some colonies adapted to the worsening conditions by moving south to find better ice or to more stable ice shelves   or icebergs. FRETWELL: It was reassuring that it wasn`t quite as bad as we feared with the worst ever sea ice, but it was still bad. KINKADE: While this is a good sign, Fretwell says work still needs to be done to save the emperor penguin, and we should do it before it`s too late. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz hot shot. Entomology is the study of what?  Dinosaurs, birds, insects, or trees? If you said insects, you are exactly right. There are about a million different species, so there is plenty of work to be done.  We recently told you about cicadapocalypse. It`s the phenomenon that hasn`t happened in more than 200 years in the U.S. It occurs when two different   groups of cicadas emerge at around the same time, filling parts of the East and Midwest with a constant buzzing sound.  Let`s go to CNN`s Whitney Wild to see what all the buzz is about in Illinois, where the cicadas are set to surface. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WHITNEY WILD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): If you live in several Midwest or Southern states this spring, neighbors you likely didn`t know   were there will make their presence known by the billions. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Millions of these bugs are about to burst from the ground together for the first time in over 221 years. WILD: Two broods of cyclical cicadas will emerge. Brood 19 and Brood 13 have been living underground for 13 and 17 years each, well before Abby   Warren and Persia Arcillus (ph) were born.  (On camera): Are you excited for cicadas? ABBY WARREN, VISITOR, PEGGY NOTEBAERT MUSEUM: Yes.  WILD: How come you`re excited, Abby?  WARREN: Because I love how they`re really loud and they go ear, ear. WILD (voice-over): The two broods haven`t crawled above ground at the same time since 1803. Back then, Thomas Jefferson was president and Illinois   wasn`t a state yet. Fast forward to 2024 and teenage cicadas are set to crawl in every corner of the Prairie State. Major metro areas like Nashville, Atlanta and St. Louis will also see their share of what`s been dubbed cicada-geddon. When groups of males get   together, their mating call will be impossible to ignore. The volume of the buzz can rival a dump truck. ALLEN LAWRENCE, ASSOCIATE CURATOR OF ENTOMOLOGY, PEGGY NOTEBAERT NATURE MUSEUM: We could see up to a million cicadas per acre emerging in some   spots. WILD: Allen Lawrence studies insects at the Peggy Notebaert Nature Museum in Chicago and can`t wait for this year`s Super Bowl of Super Bugs. LAWRENCE: This means a chance to just be fully immersed in just a really unique entomological phenomenon. This really only happens in the U.S.  WILD: Here, swarms have pestered the press and politicians alike. JOE BIDEN, (D) U.S. PRESIDENT: Watch out for the cicadas. I just got one. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, I`d like you to meet an 11- year-old who loves dogs and cats so much that she wants everyone to have one. Malia Martinez is using her impressive sewing skills to make dozens of   bandanas for shelter animals every week. How cool is that? (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) MALIA MARTINEZ: I thought if we may be like got them like a bandana, they would look cute and be like, oh, this one`s cute. Like maybe I can adopt   this one and they would get a home. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: She sells her bandanas too with all the proceeds going to charity. Her goal is to help as many animals as possible. Well done, Malia. And well done to all of you. Thanks for all the shout out requests on our CNN 10 YouTube page. Shout out to Ms. Flannery`s class at East High School   in Sioux City, Iowa. Go Raiders!  And this shout out goes to Ms. George`s class at Weston Middle School in Weston, Connecticut. Hope you have an awesome day. Remember tomorrow is #YourWordWednesday, so put your unique vocabulary word and definition in the comment section of my most recent posts on Instagram   or TikTok. And we`re going to pick a winner to highlight in tomorrow`s show. Put your school, city, state, and teacher`s name in there too. Go on out and be great today because you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-05-01
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up, sunshine? Welcome to CNN 10. I`m Coy Wire. It`s Wednesday, May the 1st. We enter what may be the last month of   school for many of you. Embrace it, someday you`re going to look back and say, ah, the good old days.  All right. We have two big stories we want to lead with today. First, let`s head back to New York City where pro-Palestinian protests at Columbia have   escalated. The university started suspending students on Tuesday after they did not obey a deadline to vacate their encampment on the West Lawn of the   Manhattan campus. But Columbia did not call in the police to break up the encampment, so hours later, student protesters moved from the encampment   and broke into Hamilton Hall, one of the main academic buildings on campus, where they have barricaded themselves inside and draped a banner out the   window that reads "Hinds Hall." A student group explained the banner honors a five-year-old girl, Hind Rajab, who was killed in Gaza. Columbia has now shut down the campus to   everyone except the students who live in dorms on campus and a small group of essential faculty.  Next, we go to Kenya, where sadly, officials now report dozens of people were killed and more than 100 others injured after floods swept through   Mahiu, a town in the northwest region of the country. Heavy rain in the region led to flooding, which was further exacerbated by a nearby dam breaking, causing water to rush through the streets. This   latest incident comes after floods have inundated Kenya several times since March, killing more than 100 additional people and displacing thousands of   Kenyans from their homes.  Ten second trivia. Which European capital city is home to a famous structure originally constructed for the 1889 World`s Fair? London, Munich, Paris, or Rome?  If you said Paris, ooh la la, oui oui, the Eiffel Tower is one of the most famous landmarks in the world, standing some 300 meters or 984 feet up   towards the Parisian sky. It is getting more and more expensive to live in many cities around the world. One of the biggest reasons, the rising cost of rent. Some may think   that cities offer superfluous activities, like all the cultural attractions from museums to shows, all the retail stores and restaurants, but many   people like all of those options and may also want to live in cities for more job opportunities. But at the same time, housing can be limited. There`s only so much room for developers to build, right? The combination of lots of demand and limited   supply drives rent prices up. That`s why many cities subsidize housing. That means they use government policy to make housing more affordable.   Melissa Bell takes us to Paris to show us how it`s working there. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MELISSA BELL, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: The view is second to none, the location as central as they get. But this rent-controlled   apartment is now Catherine`s for just $800 a month.  CATHERINE CORTINOVIS, LA SAMARITAINE RESIDENT (through translation): Welcome. The first time I saw it, I was so emotional that I burst into   tears. BELL (voice-over): And this is the building she was able to move into. Reopened amid great pomp in 2021 after some 16 years of renovation, the   Samaritaine is one of the French capital`s most iconic spots for luxury shopping and dining, not to mention its five-star hotel. But the Samaritaine was also obliged, as part of its reconstruction, to include 96 apartments for the city of Paris to let at modest rates. JACQUES BAUDRIER, DEPUTY MAYOR OF PARIS IN CHARGE OF HOUSING: If you let the market act, you will have only empty houses, second homes for   foreigners or rich French people. If you want Paris to stay a living city with people inhabiting in the city, you must develop a lot of social   holdings. BELL (on camera): Across Europe, there`s a danger of cities turning to museums and ordinary people being pushed out. But here in Paris, there`s   the added particularity that this was a city entirely redesigned in the mid-19th century. And that`s exactly what gives it its beauty, but also   what makes it difficult for the city to adapt to the needs of the 21st century. (Voice-over): Already, it is one in nine Parisians that benefits. People like Zina, whose place in the Samaritaine development allows her to live   close to the Central Paris hospital where she works. ZINA HADJAB, LA SAMARITAINE RESIDENT (through translation): As they say, it`s an open-air museum, it`s pleasant. It`s really a good place to live. BELL (voice-over): An open-air museum that is now seeking to help those who keep at schools and hospitals running to be able to benefit from them too. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: All right, you`ve all probably heard of Tesla, the electric car company owned by Elon Musk, sells more EVs than any other company in the   world. Well, did you know that its biggest competitor is a Chinese company named BYD? China`s electric car market has exploded the last few years.   There are now more than 200 electric vehicle manufacturers in China. CNN`s Marc Stewart takes us inside a recent auto show in Beijing to show us how   China is charging up as it works toward the future of automobiles. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: This is "Auto China," the largest car show in all of China, and one of the largest in the world. There are a few gas-  powered cars here, but the real focus is electric. UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): I came here mainly checking on EVs. Now, there are many EV brands. So, there are lots of options. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): We liked the standout eye- catching color. STEWART: There are more than 200 EV makers in China. Take a look over here. This is the line to see the latest offering from Xiaomi. It`s a Chinese   tech company known for its phones. This is the much talked about Xiaomi SU7. Yes, it has an aerodynamic design. It can accelerate very quickly. Its   battery can take you for about 500 miles. But, its most distinct point is this touchscreen. You can use it to control almost whole aspects of your   life. It can turn the lights in your home on and off. It can even start the coffee maker. This isn`t just about performance. Geopolitics plays a role   too. Elon Musk flew to China over the weekend on a surprise trip and met Chinese Premier Li Qiang. Musk has his biggest overseas Tesla factory in Shanghai.   So, he has big stakes in China. According to state media, Li said that China is open to foreign business and wants to make it easier for global   companies to come here.  In addition, Musk said Tesla`s Gigafactory in Shanghai is its best performing. Tesla wants to be an even bigger player in the Chinese market   in addition to its American base. ELON MUSK, CEO, TESLA: It`s good to see electric vehicles making progress in China. All cars will be electric in the future. STEWART (voice-over): As a piece of American technology, Tesla faced lots of restrictions in China out of security concerns. Until this visit, Tesla   cars were sometimes not allowed to enter airports, government compounds and other sensitive areas. Well, this time, after Musk met Li, Chinese   authorities announced that such restrictions on Tesla cars are no more because the company`s China-made vehicles have passed the country`s data   security requirements. (On camera): As Elon Musk looks for success here in China for Chinese carmakers looking to break into the American market, that may not be so   easy. Top U.S. officials have expressed concern that Chinese cars could potentially collect data and send it back here to Beijing, a potential blow   for China, the world`s largest auto exporter. Marc Stewart, CNN, Beijing. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, we want you to meet Emo, the smiling robot. It`s a face created by engineers at Columbia that can   make eye contact. But even better, it`s been programmed by two AI models to anticipate when you`re about to smile, then beats you to it. Raise your hand if you think that`s cool. OK, now raise your hand if you think that`s creepy. Emo can predict your smile 840 milliseconds before it   even starts. It`s equipped with high-res cameras in its eyes and 26 robotic facial muscles to produce this gregarious grin. Now, that is some   technology we can all smile about.  Congrats to all the Tigers at Ripley High School in Mississippi, especially Coach Wilcher`s class for submitting our Your Word Wednesday winner on my   TikTok page, superfluous. An adjective meaning beyond what is sufficient or necessary. Nice one.  All right, today`s shout-out is going to Washington Middle School in Green Bay, Wisconsin. We see you, Mr. Lascott, bringing the heat. Thank you for   all the lovely signatures and all the messages. Much love. That is incredible stuff.  And this shout-out goes to Mrs. Westlake`s transition class. They`re all over there hanging out at William Amos Hough High School in Cornelius,   North Carolina. Look at this art.  And, you know, you wanted to know how I decide whether or not to wear a tie each day. You apparently vote on it. Well, sometimes I like just rolling up   my sleeves and being casual. Sometimes I`m feeling kind of fancy. Rise up. Thanks for all the love, and I`ll see you right back here tomorrow on CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-05-02
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, and welcome. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10, where I tell you the what, letting you decide what to think. Happy Friday, Eve. Hope you have a thirst for knowledge this fine Thursday because we`re going to serve up a whole bunch of it. Let`s get you your   news. We start today`s show on campus at the University of California, Los Angeles, or UCLA, where violent confrontations broke out between pro-  Palestinian and pro-Israeli protesters overnight on Tuesday. The skirmishes happened hours after UCLA`s leader, Chancellor Gene Block, called a pro-  Palestinian encampment on campus unlawful and threatened students with suspension or expulsion if they did not disperse.  Fireworks were fired at the encampment built by pro-Palestinian protesters, and both sides fired tear gas or other gas irritants at each other,   according to the Daily Bruin, the UCLA student newspaper. Now, people were also attacked, and objects were thrown at each side. Early Wednesday morning, Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass posted on X that the Los   Angeles Police Department, or LAPD, was on campus to stop the unrest. Mayor Bass also calling the violence abhorrent, meaning horrible, repulsive, or   offensive. The violence at UCLA came hours after Columbia University called the NYPD to clear out student protesters who had taken control of a building on   campus in New York City.  In total, more than 300 people were arrested on Tuesday night at Columbia and a few blocks north at City College of New York. CNN`s Miguel Marquez   takes us on the ground on Manhattan`s Upper West Side to show us the aftermath. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: So, New York police officers moved in, in the hundreds into Columbia University. They were -- they were not in   full tactical gear, but they did have helmets and batons, and they moved in on this street. This is 114th Street in Amsterdam right here. They moved   in, in very large numbers onto the campus through a single gate on 114th Street.  You can still see one bus down there. That bus is taking whoever is left to arrest. We saw dozens of people arrested that were brought out through a   separate gate here on 114th. But the hall that had been taken over by students, Hamilton Hall, is just up the Amsterdam Avenue here.  Police were able to get into it using a bearcats. They were lifted up to the second floor. They used flashbang grenades to sort of distract whoever   was inside Hamilton Hall. And then they were able to get in. They said that the individuals in there had barricaded the doors with everything from   chairs and tables to soda machines. And there weren`t many people in there. Police now say it is done, that everybody that was on the encampment for the last two weeks has been moved out or arrested, that everybody that was   in the hall has been either moved out or arrested, and that the entire campus, there was nobody on the Columbia campus that shouldn`t be there at   this point, say, New York police officers.  The Columbia University has also asked the NYPD to keep a presence on the university through May 17th. The commencement is on May 15th, so it is   clear that Columbia doesn`t want to have a repeat of what happened a couple of weeks ago when they cleared the campus once and the encampment   reestablished itself. This time, they want to get back to the business of being a university.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia.  In the game of poker, what term is used to describe the combination of cards a player holds?  Deck, flop, bridge, hand.  If you said hand, got to hand it to you, you are correct. Did you know that your two hands make up more than a quarter of all the bones in your body?   All right, we all know that washing our hands is important, and that is particularly true if you`re a chef or another restaurant worker handling   food, right? But according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC, only one out of every three food workers wash their   hands like they should. That`s not just gross, it`s dangerous, and possibly quite literally sickening. That could lead to the outbreak of foodborne   illnesses like norovirus, salmonella, and E. coli. But as you`ll see in this CNN report, a new startup in New York has a potential solution. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) RAFAEL BUTLER, DIRECTOR, FOOD SAFETY, JUST SALAD: Not having clean hands could lead to crock contamination, could lead to illness, could lead to an   employee getting sick. CLARE DUFFY, CNN BUSINESS WRITER: We`ve all seen these signs in restaurants telling employees to wash their hands, but is the person making your food   actually doing that? It`s an important question, not just for the customers but for the business too. After all, dirty hands touching food can lead to   food-related illnesses, forcing a restaurant to shut down temporarily or even for good. CHRISTINE SCHINDLER, CEO, PATHSPOT: I think that, especially in today`s world, the heightened awareness on why contamination is present in our   world and our own personal objectives as well as responsibility in stopping the spread of illness is more apparent than ever. DUFFY: Here at Just Salad, a restaurant with more than 80 franchises, the company showed CNN how it`s implementing food safety technology that it   hopes will lower the risk of foodborne illnesses such as E. coli, norovirus, and salmonella.  One of its new tools is this hand scanner developed by New York-based PathSpot. The device scans employees` hands for contamination each time   they wash and can detect gut biomolecules in just seconds. BUTLER: And this is what you should do. You need to get in the cracks in these little crevices here inside the palm and the nails especially is   where we see a lot of times people miss rinsing properly. Turn it off. And then you come over to the hand scanner, put your hands underneath. It`ll let you know exactly when to flip and then it`ll let you know you   passed. SCHINDLER: That data flow then translates back to management teams so they`re able to see in real time, are we hitting our required hand washes?   If we had a spike in hand washing contaminations, what actually caused that? BUTLER: When you come here and you go to scan activity, it`s going to let me know how many times each day they`re washing their hands. Scroll up.   It`ll let me know how successful they are here.  All the systems combined help us just monitor everything and make sure everything`s working properly. It allows us not to be in the store all the   time and be able to monitor it without being actually physically present. DUFFY: While that might sound like micromanaging, the CDC has found that in the past, restaurant employees are more likely to properly wash their hands   when managers emphasize its importance. BUTLER: Our team members can wash their hands for 20 seconds, but we can find out where they`re missing and coach, our team on how to do better. DUFFY: PathSpot`s technology, which the company says is being used in roughly 10,000 food service locations worldwide, aims to take that a step   further. SCHINDLER: By adopting this type of tool and technology, it`s creating a safer workplace and a safer livelihood for so many different aspects of the   supply chain. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Now, our next story is on and popping. Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, has us cracking up as a chiropractor in Oklahoma got a request for a   neck adjustment, but little did he know the patient was a giraffe. Jeanne Moos is on the story. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT: If you think adjusting a giraffe`s neck would be a pain in the neck, listen for the crack. Here`s   how this Oklahoma chiropractor describes it.  DR. JOREN WHITLEY, CHIROPRACTOR: Being able to work on a giraffe is a chiropractor`s dream. I mean, it`s the largest neck in the world.  MOOS: Dr. Joren Whitley was called in because Gerry the giraffe, owned by a private rancher, had a chewing issue. WHITLEY: His jaw was not moving to the left. MOOS: So Dr. Whitley stuck his neck out trying to adjust Jerry`s.  (On camera): What does it feel like to adjust a giraffe? WHITLEY: Their hair is pokey and their -- their tongues are really slimy. Oh, it`s like a short haired cactus. MOOS: Along with his human patients, Dr. Whitley specializes in animals, mainly dogs.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh, I heard that.  MOOS: But also chickens. And after Dr. Whitley adjusted this injured bat, he says it was once again able to climb and hang upside down. He`s even   adjusted sedated lions like this one in South Africa. Skeptics say chiropractic has no basis in science, that there`s no proof it works on   humans or animals. But Gerry`s owner told the "Washington Post" the giraffe`s chewing improved after his adjustment. And look at that reaction.   One commenter called it the look of bliss. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Now that`s one doc that will always have your pets back. All right, beautiful people. We are showing some love today to some of the folks   showing us love on our CNN 10 YouTube channel. Johnston Senior High in Rhode Island. Let`s hear it for those Panthers. We appreciate you. And how about those Gateway Gators in Nampa, Idaho. Rise up.  I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. See you tomorrow. But a random thought Thursday before I go. Why is it that when we deliver something by ship, it`s called cargo, but when delivered by car, it`s called shipment? That`s weird. END 

Date: 2024-05-03
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, party people? I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. Happy Friday, Friyay.  Before we get started, let`s go on and show our teachers some love. Tell them to push that pause button, give them a handshake, a high five, a bro   hug, a sister squeeze. Let them know you appreciate them.  All right, let`s get you your news. As many as 60 million Americans will have to pay more for their internet bills, this is after a government   program they rely on runs out of funding. It`s called the Affordable Connectivity Program, or ACP. And it passed in 2021 as part of a Bipartisan   Infrastructure Bill.  Low-income Americans could apply to the ACP and receive up to $30 per month to help pay for the internet. The ACP started with $14 billion, but it`s   now set to run out of money by the end of this month. Some lawmakers from both parties want to put more money into the ACP, but so far efforts have   stalled in Congress. President Joe Biden and other advocates for the bill, including some internet companies, say the ACP funding is vital to help low-income   Americans access everything from telemedicine to online classes. But many conservative Republicans are upset about how much money the government is   spending on programs like the ACP, putting America further into debt. And the commissioner of the FCC says, quote, "the money has run out," unquote.  Without Congress stepping in, the ACP will expire at the end of May. That will force millions of Americans to pay more for their internet or lose   their connectivity.  Next up, the unrest happening on college and university campuses across the United States has continued this week, even as officials have expelled   students and police have arrested hundreds of protesters. Although these images may look scary, as CNN`s Brian Todd shows us, the recent student protests have actually been largely peaceful, especially   when you compare them to college protests of the past. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  1968, student protesters at New York`s Columbia University take over several buildings and briefly even   take the dean hostage. One of the buildings they seized, Hamilton Hall, which students occupied during recent protests at Columbia. TIM NAFTALI, CNN PRESIDENTIAL HISTORIAN:  1968, the first time it was occupied, Hamilton Hall was the scene of a dramatic police action that   resulted in the arrests of 700 people. TODD:  Those protests against the Vietnam War had been taking place for years on college campuses across America and would continue for a few more   for years from Columbia to Cal Berkeley, to Kent State. In 1969, student protesters at Harvard took over and occupied university hall, marching school officials out of the building. The primary difference   between then and now, the scale of the violence. While skirmishes have broken out at UCLA, and some other campuses during the current demonstrations, these protests have been for the most part,   peaceful. In the Vietnam era, violence broke out routinely and on many campuses, students often brawling with police. PROF. JULIA REUBEN, HARVARD UNIVERSITY:  Disciplining students, calling in the police, having protests removed, that tended to increase the sympathy   for protesters, build the size of protests and also increase the voice of more extreme activists. TODD:  In two horrific episodes, the Vietnam era violence turned deadly. In May 1970, on the campus of Kent State University, Ohio National Guard   troops opened fire on student protesters, killing four of them and injuring several others. Days later, during racial injustice protests at Jackson State College in Mississippi, Police fired at a dormitory, killing two students and injuring   a dozen others. Possibly a closer comparison to what`s going on now took place in the 1980s, when students across America protested against   apartheid in South Africa. They called on schools to divest themselves from companies groups that supported the apartheid regime in South Africa, much like students are now   calling oncologists to divest themselves from Israeli linked companies. Another dynamic that hasn`t changed across these arrows of protest. PROF. LAUREN DUNCAN, SMITH COLLEGE:  They`ve got a lot of energy and they`re idealistic and they like to protest when things feel unjust or seem   unjust to them. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Ten second trivia.  What is the collective name for single-celled, microscopic organisms that live in the soil, water and animals?  Bacteria, blood, DNA, or virus? Answer is bacteria. The number of bacteria, did you know, that you have in your mouth is more than the total number of humans on Earth. That is wild. All right, is there a sustainable alternative for fashion? Maybe fabrics with 0% animal or plastic? Is that even possible? Well, actually it is. This London-based biotech company, Modern Synthesis, has developed a way to create low-impact textiles using bacteria. Yes, you   heard that right, bacteria. But to create raw materials using this process at a mass scale like the fashion industry would need, it will be costly. Just how much is the   question? Take a look. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Strong, lightweight and versatile. But this material isn`t like anything you know. It`s been created with bacteria. Biotechnology startup Modern Synthesis is learning from and collaborating with living organisms to make brand new low-impact textiles. DR. BEN REEVE, COREN:-FOUNDER, MODERN SYNTHESIS:  Bacteria are really amazing. Sometimes they can be harmful, but most of the time they`re really   beneficial. We use bacteria to make sourdough bread, cheese, yogurt. We can work with bacteria to make even more exciting new products. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The aim? To create sustainable alternatives to traditional fabrics and help curb emissions and pollution associated with   the fashion industry. Key to the company`s process is cellulose, a type of fiber with a higher strength-to-weight ratio. It`s known as nature`s   building block. It makes up materials like cotton, wood and bamboo. It all starts here, with a bacteria invisible to the human eye. It`s called K. rhaeticus and it`s isolated from kombucha, fermented tea. REEVE:  We feed that with sugars and then it produces nanocellulose, which is a special, fine, strong form of cellulose.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It`s eight times stronger than steel on a fiber level.  REEVE:  We can then process it, manipulate it at the nanostructure. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We use green chemistries to process the material to add additional functionalities, whether that be waterproofness or just   aesthetic properties like color and different patterning. We then form the material together with a natural textile. REEVE:  And that allows us to customize the kind of strength and flexibility in new ways. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The final products are 100% animal and plastic free. But to create products on a mass scale, like the fashion industry is used   to, is costly. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  In the long run, I`m confident that we can create materials that can sit at the same price points as those that we use today.   And to use existing equipment from the textile industry and the food industry so that we don`t have to build everything from scratch. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Modern Synthesis is part of a growing number of companies in the next generation material space, producing new textiles   from raw materials such as mushroom mycelium, algae or bacteria. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  For the first time, we`re able to offer the aesthetic and the performance of the materials that we use every day, but without the   plastic and without the animal. And I can`t stress how hard that is. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  All right, I got to admit, today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10 is a little bit cheesy or a lot cheesy. Check this out, 24-7 cheese vending   machines. This cashless wonder is stocked with an assortment of cheeses with names like Intergalactic, Tree Hug and Field Day. But it`s not just a   cheese dispenser. It`s also complete with crackers, jams and even charcuterie. Maybe it`s time for your school to get one of these. It would take your snack game to a whole new level.  All right, thank you for an awesome week, everyone. We`re going to show some love today. How about to Mrs. Brown`s class at Scammon Bay, Alaska.   Fly high, Eagles. And let`s go to Winnebago Middle School in Nebraska. Follow the Bego way. Be safe, arrive on time, give respect, get respect and own your actions.   That is great advice.  It has been such a blessing to spend this week with you. Thanks for spending some time with us. Go out and make an awesome weekend. Make   someone smile. Remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END     

Date: 2024-05-06
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, sunshine, hope you had an awesome weekend. Welcome back to CNN 10, where we tell you the what, letting you decide what   to think. It`s time to rise up and start this week strong. Let`s go.  We start today with extreme weather in Texas and its impact on residents. Over the past month, a series of brutal weather events have rattled the   state, including dozens of tornadoes like this one, near Abilene. Now, significant rainfall is now flooding roads and stranding livestock. Rivers are hitting levels that haven`t been seen since Hurricane Harvey in   2017. To put this amount of water into perspective, on Thursday, the communities just north of Houston received two months` worth of rain in one   day alone. That`s combined with an unusually wet spring that already made the ground super saturated, meaning it couldn`t absorb any more water. So that water   has to go somewhere, and it has led to flash floods popping up throughout the region. Disaster declarations are now in effect for more than a third   of Texas. In Harris County, a local official says more than 200 people have been rescued without any injuries or deaths reported. These events show how   severe weather can overwhelm communities on short notice, but also how proper planning and a quick response can save lives. CNN`s Rosa Flores has   more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, there`s been a lot of emotional and very tense moments for individuals who have been rescued from these rising   waters. What you hear in the background is an airboat. They`re still rescuing individuals, but they`re also trying to convince them to evacuate. Let me show you around. This is an area that`s called the River Bottom. Now, this street curls around, and there are homes back there, RVs back   there. I`ve talked to neighbors who say that there are between 8 and 15 individuals back there who do not want to evacuate. But take a look around,   and you`ll see the water levels. You see the water level on the fence and on the trees. If you look closely, the good news is that some of the water   is receding because you can tell that water level from the tree.  Now, I talked to the owner of this mobile home. Her name is Stacey Smith, and she is one of the individuals who has access to her home. She has taken   everything out. She has left the area, but she says that she`s trying to come back because she`s trying to convince the 8 to 15 individuals that she   calls friends and family who are back in the river bottom because she`s hoping that they evacuate to safety. Take a listen. STACEY SMITH, RESIDENT: The ones that didn`t want to come right now, we`re going to go back and get with a personal boat, and we`re going to go get   everybody. We`re not leaving nobody behind because they`re like our family. They`re like family down there. FLORES: And just to put this into perspective, Harris County, Texas, is one of the biggest counties in the country. And according to authorities at   this point, they estimate that several hundred homes are being impacted.  Now, the damage assessments have not been made. According to authorities, that might start on Monday. That, of course, is if the water starts to   recede. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Texas isn`t the only place dealing with the fallout of torrential rains. In Brazil, catastrophic floods in the country`s southernmost state   have impacted more than 67,000 people. Houses have been submerged up to their rooftops, and roads can only be traveled by boat. The government has declared a state of emergency. Brazil`s president is assuring citizens that there will be help from the government for   healthcare, food, and transportation for people affected by the floods.  Pop quiz, hot shot.  How long does it take for the moon to make a complete orbit around our planet Earth?  31 days, 27 days, 14 days, just a day.  If you said 27 days, put your hands up. The moon makes a complete orbit around Earth in 27 Earth days and rotates or spins at that same rate or in   that same amount of time.  Ever wonder why we always see the same side of the moon, even though both the Earth and moon rotate on their axes? Well, it`s because the moon takes   about the same amount of time to complete an orbit of Earth and rotate around its axis. Well, the far side of the moon is about to have a visitor, a probe, China`s Chang`e 6. This probe won`t have any astronauts on board, but it launched   on Friday and is set to land on the far side of the moon to collect samples during its 53-day mission. While spaceflight has traditionally been led by   the United States and Russia, more countries are getting in on the game.  CNN`s Marc Stewart has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): This is China`s latest leap in the global quest to put a human back on the moon. CNN was there invited by the Chinese government for a behind-the-scenes look at the Wenchang launch site here on Hainan Island along the South   China Sea. The goal of this mission to bring back the first samples ever collected from the moon`s far side. Part of China`s ambitious plan to send   astronauts by 2030 and build a lunar research station. YAN ZEHUA, SPACE PHOTOGRAPHER: It makes us feel we are the strong country because we have the power to launch the big rocket to the moon. STEWART: What`s happening here has critics. The Chinese government maintains space should be a peaceful place. Yet, the head of NASA expressed   concern China may be using its civilian program for military purposes, even suggesting a Chinese takeover of the moon. (On camera): Why does the journey to the moon matter so much? LEROY CHIAO, FORMER NASA ASTRONAUT: I think it`s symbolically important. It`s, again, why does any country get into the spaceflight business,   particularly human spaceflight? It`s for national prestige, it`s for -- to show the world their technological prowess. STEWART: This isn`t just about space and science, it`s also about national pride and profit. Space tourism is big here. And that includes these   rocket-shaped water bottles. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is the first time. So we are very excited. STEWART (voice-over): The space presence here is palpable as families take pictures and shop for souvenirs. (On camera): It`s not just snacks at this hotel gift shop, it`s backpacks, rockets, even a model of the Chinese space station. Even afternoon tea   comes with a taste of space. (Voice-over): Celebrations aside, this is a cosmic competition to make a mark on earth and beyond. Marc Stewart, CNN, Hainan Island, China. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Now, China`s lunar lander isn`t the only cool space story we have for you today. Tonight, Boeing`s Starliner is scheduled for its first launch   with astronauts on board. If all goes according to plan, Commander Butch Wilmore and Pilot Suni Williams will take the spacecraft up to the   International Space Station where they`ll spend about a week before returning home. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) "SUNI" WILLIAMS, NASA ASTRONAUT & STARLINER CFT PILOT: We had the kitchen sink essentially thrown at us the other day on an SN sim, and we came out   fine. So I have all the confidence. "BUTCH" WILMORE, NASA ASTRONAUT & STARLINER CFT COMMANDER: We wouldn`t be here if it weren`t ready. We are ready, the spacecraft`s ready, and the   teams are ready. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Now, there have been a lot of setbacks leading up to this moment. SpaceX has already been flying astronauts to the International Space   Station since 2020, but it has taken Boeing up until now to reach this milestone. This is what NASA has been hoping for, for quite some time, to   have two different private companies able to fly these sorts of missions. Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a zebra named Shug finally found safe and sound. Four zebras were seen running down an interstate near North Bend   in Washington State after they escaped from a trailer on April 28th. The owner reportedly stopped to fix an issue with the trailer, and then these   zebras were seen running through yards. Some people thought this was some sort of prank. While three of the zebras were captured within a few hours, a mare named Shug remained on the run for   nearly six days, but animal services says Shug was safely rescued Friday night. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Our understanding is that, you know, she was relatively safe. They have incredible kicking power and incredible aim.   I`ve learned more about zebras, you know, than I ever thought I would want to know. So, while cougars are a concern in our area, they have plenty of deer to take. It`s not likely that a cougar would`ve, you know, probably gone after   her, and if it did, it probably would`ve been the worst thing they ever tangled with in its life. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Oh, Shug was set to be transported to Anaconda, Montana, which is where the trailer was originally headed before the escape. So glad Shug was   found safe and sound, and so glad that we have found all of you. Love our time together. We want to give a shout out to the lovely people in Coach Reeder`s World Geography class in Benton, Louisiana. Tigers, thank you for being you.  And we`re sending some love to the hardworking students at Chincoteague Combined School in Virginia. Ponies, let`s ride.  And rise up, everyone. Remember, today`s news is tomorrow`s history, so let`s keep learning and make it a great day. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10, and we`ll see you tomorrow. END 

Date: 2024-05-07
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Good morning, good afternoon, good evening, wherever you are in this world. Let`s smell the flowers and cool the soup.   Let`s get our minds right and take this into Tuesday in an awesome way. Remember tomorrow`s #YourWordWednesday. So submit your vocab word and definition in the comment section of my most recent post @coywire on   social. Put your school mascot, teacher`s name in there too, if you`d like, and we`re going to pick a winner to work into tomorrow`s show. All right. We start today in Texas where water is finally beginning to recede after parts of the state experienced extreme flooding. As we told   you yesterday, some areas are swamped with two months` worth of rain in just five days. Search and rescue teams are scouring the streets looking for people in distress. So far, at least 200 people have been rescued from homes and   vehicles in Harris County, which is home to nearly 5 million people. It`s the most populous county in the state. Officials report that at least one person has died in the flooding. Rivers haven`t swelled to this level since Hurricane Harvey in 2017. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) BRANDON MOSLEY, TEXAS GAME WARDEN CAPTAIN: It appears to be potentially even more devastating in some parts than Harvey. So we definitely got a lot   of rain in a quick amount of time. And that`s one of the things in East Texas, we don`t get the runoff. And when you have these flash flooding   events, many times, unfortunately, they catch people off guard. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Now, although the water has started to recede in some areas, officials say overall the water levels are still dangerously high. So to   all of our friends in Texas, please stay safe.  Next up, we head to New York City where Columbia University is canceling its school-wide commencement ceremony planned for next week. It instead   will hold smaller events due to security concerns. Columbia is where pro- Palestinian encampments started a few weeks ago and then spread to colleges and universities all across the country before police shut them down. Pro-Palestinian protests already interrupted some graduation ceremonies last weekend. As we`ve discussed, many colleges and universities have   endowments, which are basically big sums of money acquired largely through donations. And pro-Palestinian protesters want their schools to divest   those endowments or take money away from Israeli companies, from companies that work with Israel or create weapons for Israel. Next, we head to Iran, a country that is currently sanctioned by the U.S. and its allies. So what is a sanction? It`s when a country punishes another   country financially. In this case, the United States and several other countries don`t buy products from Iran or sell products to them. That`s   because Iran supports Islamic terrorist organizations and has violated nuclear agreements.  CNN`s Fred Pleitgen shows us how Iran is trying to work around these sanctions, working with countries willing to defy the U.S.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): An international trade fair in one of the most sanctioned countries in the world. It`s called the   Iran Expo and it`s the Islamic Republic`s attempt to market its products to businesses willing to defy U.S.-led sanctions. (On camera): Iran`s leadership has said that in order to try and beat the sanctions, what they want to do is develop their own homegrown industries,   like the automobile industry, and then hopefully export items like these around the world. (Voice-over): Tehran showcasing everything from heavy machinery to food products, hoping for international buyers. It seems like a tall task. But   as large economies like Russia and China increasingly find themselves under Western economic pressure, the Iranians hope they`ll be more open to doing   business with Tehran. We even met a parliamentarian from Mali, saying he`d do an interview but only in Russian. Right now we have dynamic growth in the medical sector in the first place, he says, and we`re also interested in widening cooperation in the oil   sector and also general trade. Iran`s economy has been ravaged by what the U.S. called maximum pressure, design that the U.S. claims to compel it to stop its support for extremism,   halt its crackdown on protesters and agree to a tougher nuclear deal.  Unemployment and inflation are high while Iran`s currency continues to devalue. Iran is working with other adversaries of the West like Russia. The cooperation we have in the energy sector and agriculture, education and development, and the contact between our scientists, in all these   directions, we can take further steps, Iran`s president said at a recent meeting with Russian leader Vladimir Putin. And Iran wants to rely not only   on oil and gas but also on manufacturing. The country`s deputy industries minister tells me.  The reality is that sanctions have two faces, he says, the damaging side but the other side is that it makes you believe in your capabilities and   become independent. But the Iranians acknowledge Western sanctions are a major hurdle not only when it comes to making their products but also   trying to sell them abroad. Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Tehran. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz, hot shots.  What do you call a piece of sea ice formed in the ocean?  Floe, iceberg, glacier, ice dam. If you said floe, you are correct. An ice flow forms from ocean water. An iceberg forms on land, then breaks off from a glacier into the ocean. Arctic sea ice has been shrinking for 46 straight years. In fact, NASA says we`ve lost enough Arctic ice to fill the entire state of Alaska. One big   question is, can anything be done? Well, an ambitious group of problem solvers have an idea, create new ice by pumping water from below. Check this out. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): Can you refreeze melting Arctic ice? This startup says it`s developing a way to do so. ANDREA CECCOLINI, CO-CEO, REAL ICE: We were in Alaska, we did a submersible pump, we made a hole in the ice, we pumped water. Within hours, it was   solid frozen. It is as simple as that. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: A study says the Arctic could be free of sea ice during the month of September by the 2030s, about a decade earlier than   previous projections. And this would have dire ripple effects right around the world. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Since the 1980s, the amount of sea ice that`s more than a year old has roughly fallen by half. We`re currently losing about   six centimeters every year. CECCOLINI: So if you re-ice, you can add an extra 70 centimeters of thickness. It`s as simple as pumping water on top of existing ice.   Basically you expose the sea water to the cold temperature of the atmosphere and it will freeze very, very quickly. We know that works. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: UK-based company Real Ice plans to use automated underwater vehicles powered by green hydrogen. They use small pumps to   bring water from below the ice to the top, creating a lake that freezes, thickening the ice sheet. CECCOLINI: Why would we do it from under the water? It seems complicated. In reality, operating underwater is actually making many things simpler and   more controlled. If you think the opposite, operating on top of the sea ice in the middle of the Arctic, you`re facing very, very cold temperatures, high winds, all   sorts of precipitations from the sky. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The project is currently in the early testing stages. They aim to be working with underwater prototypes in 2024 and are planning   to test the re-icing on an Arctic bay in 2027. CECCOLINI: This is a preservation of a habitat, exactly like a tropical forest or a coral reef. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: All right, this is something you have to see. Look what happened to the U.S. team`s boat during a practice race in Bermuda. The boat, flipping   over on its side during the SailGP event on May 3rd, five of the six team members went into the water. Thankfully, there were no serious injuries.  It turns out, one of the team members accidentally pressed the wrong button, inverting the wing and causing the boat to capsize. The U.S. team   was unable to compete for the rest of the race weekend due to damage to the boat`s wing.  In today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, it`s Italy versus France. We`re not talking about a soccer match. Five years ago, Italy dethroned France as   baker of the world`s longest baguette. But French bakers just said, ready or not, here we crumb. They came back with a baguette that`s longer than a   football field. It measures 461 feet. That`s 235 times longer than a traditional baguette, which is a long, thin, crusty loaf of bread, in case   you didn`t know.  France has baked its way back into the Guinness World Records. Now that`s what I call breademption. All right, powerful people, thank you for joining us today. Shout out to Mrs. Cunningham`s class at Bell School in Minot, North Dakota. Go Beavers! And to the Railsplitter at Lincoln Park Middle School in Michigan, keep on chopping, baby.  Have a wonderful Tuesday, everyone. See you tomorrow for Your Word Wednesday, and you better bring it. END 

Date: 2024-05-08
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, and welcome to the show. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news because of you. It`s Wednesday, May 8th. I`m looking forward to using one of your vocab words in today`s show. Lots of stellar submissions, so thank you for   boosting our vocabulary. First up, we start in Israel, where the country`s military, known as the Israel Defense Forces, or IDF, has taken control of the Palestinian side of   the Rafah crossing. That`s a key point of entry for aid coming into Gaza. It`s located on the border with Egypt. The assault began overnight on Tuesday with Israeli airstrikes on Rafah. Medical officials there say 23 people were killed. Soon after, the IDF   rolled tanks into the area, replacing Palestinian flags with Israeli flags. This new offensive comes as ceasefire negotiations between Israel and the terror organization Hamas, which runs Gaza, have hit a snag. Hamas has   agreed to a deal that would require them to release 33 Israeli hostages taken during its October 7th assault on Israel. In exchange, Israel would   release hundreds of Palestinian prisoners and pause the war for an indefinite period to allow for the rebuilding of Gaza. So far, Israel has   rejected the deal. The U.N. Secretary General is urging both sides to keep talking. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ANTONIO GUTERRES, UNITED NATIONS SECRETARY-GENERAL: It would be tragic. If weeks of intense diplomatic activity for peace in Gaza yield no ceasefire,   no release of hostages, and a devastating offensive in Rafah. I reiterate my appeal for both parties to show the political courage and spare no   effort to secure an agreement now. To stop the bloodshed. To free the hostages. And to help stabilize a region which is still at risk of   explosion. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Before moving into Rafah on Tuesday, Israel warned residents to evacuate. But earlier in the war, Israel had told Palestinians in northern   Gaza to flee south towards that city. So this new offensive is leaving people who originally fled to Rafah in dire circumstances with few options   on where to go.  Next, we head to Oklahoma, where giant hail, hurricane force winds, and devastating tornadoes tore through parts of the state Monday night, killing   at least one person and injuring multiple others. Tornadoes and inclement weather also causing considerable damage in Missouri and Tennessee. The residents of Barnsdall, Oklahoma, are all too   familiar with this kind of destruction. This tornado was the second in a little over a month to hit the small city with a population of about 1,000   people. CNN`s Lucy Kafanov is on the ground to show us the damage up close. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LUCY KAFANOV, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Behind me, a residential home. The parts that were built out of stone still sort of standing, but a lot of this no   longer livable. The family will have to find another place to live. As we walk over here, this was a garage structure that also was a part of this   property. And that tornado, the direct hit here, flattening this structure. I don`t know if you could see it behind me, but over there is a pickup   truck. It just gives you a sense of the scale of this destruction. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: This region is not yet out of the woods. Millions in the Midwest are still at risk of strong tornadoes ripping through the area, and millions   more are vulnerable to damaging storms.  Boeing`s Starliner needs a do-over. We told you earlier this week that the new spacecraft was supposed to take off Monday night with astronauts on   board for the first time. But shortly before launch, there was an issue with the rocket that propels the capsule into space. CNN`s Kristin Fisher   explains what happened. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT: About two hours before lifting off with two NASA astronauts, Suni Williams and Butch Wilmore on   top inside that Starliner spacecraft, the ground teams discovered an issue with an oxygen relief valve on the second stage of the Atlas V rocket.  This is a valve that essentially releases some pressure from the oxygen, the liquid oxygen that`s building up in the tank. Liquid oxygen is one of   the propellants that fuels the Atlas V into space. And so the United Launch Alliance says this is typically a pretty minor issue that they`ve experienced before. They know how to troubleshoot. If it   had only been a payload on top, a non-human payload, like satellites or something like that, they would have gone ahead and launched. They say that those satellites would already be up in space now. But because this was the first time that they actually had people on top, the   first crewed test flight of Boeing`s Starliner spacecraft, they decided, out of an abundance of caution, to hold off. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: NASA and Boeing may try for another launch on Friday. When it does take off, the spacecraft is headed to the International Space Station,   where it will spend about a week before coming home. NASA is welcoming a second company with which it can partner on missions to the ISS. SpaceX has   already been flying astronauts there since 2020.  In South Africa, rescue operations are underway in the city of George after a multi-story building collapse left dozens of people trapped under debris.   Rescue teams are working quickly to save as many people as possible. At least 26 people have been pulled from the rubble, but dozens more are missing and at least six people have been killed. South Africa`s president   is offering his condolences to families who lost their loved ones. He`s also launching an investigation into the cause of the collapse in order to   help prevent something like this from happening in the future. Ten second trivia.  Which of these countries has the largest population in the world? The United States, India, China or Nigeria? If you said India, then Indi-yeah, with more than 1.4 billion people, the South Asian nation edged out China last year as the world`s most populous   country, according to the U.N.  India, the most populous country, has nearly a billion people who are eligible to vote. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is seeking a third term in   office, but with a billion people, it`s not easy to keep track of who voted and who hasn`t. So India developed a special system. It involves purple   ink. CNN`s Ivana Scatola has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) IVANA SCATOLA, CNN DIGITAL VIDEO PRODUCER (voice-over): This purple mark has become a symbol of Indian elections. It`s painted on with something   called indelible ink, meaning it can`t be removed easily. The Indian Election Commission has used this practice for more than seven decades to   prevent fraud and duplicate votes. When a voter arrives at the booth, the ink is painted onto the left index finger, leaving a stain. K MOHAMMED IRFAN, MANAGING DIRECTOR OF MYSORE VARNISH AND PAINTS LIMITED: Right from the prime minister to the most common person, everybody flashes   their fingers, from celebrities, from film stars, everybody. That is a mark of democracy. SCATOLA: Although it`s hard to remove, it does eventually wash off after around two weeks, depending on the person`s skin.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translation): It stays for approximately three days. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translation): It goes away slowly, slowly, on its own.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translation): Even if a person wants to take it off they can`t.  SCATOLA: What makes the ink last this long is strictly confidential. It`s a secret formula that hasn`t changed since 1951. What we do know is that the   chemical compound silver nitrate is a key ingredient. IRFAN: This formula comes in contact with the sunlight, it reacts with the skin and the color emerges. SCATOLA: The company Mysore Varnish and Paints has the exclusive rights to make and distribute the liquid to polling booths across the entire country.   This year, the company has prepared 2.7 million ink vials, its largest order to date. Each vial contains enough ink to mark 700 voters. IRFAN: Our ink is being used to mark every electorate. It is a very proud moment. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, is a peel good story. LaToya Keeling made some friends with two young bulls in a pasture next door by   doling out a bunch of bananas. Yes, they found the fruit appealing. But LaToya was utterly shocked when one of those incorrigible bulls busted   through the fence and showed up at her house. She called the police, who helped move the bull back to his farm, but not before milking the situation   for a few selfies. Here`s LaToya`s advice. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) LATOYA KEELING: Don`t feed young bulls bananas. They`re like cats. They`ll come back. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Now that`s a legen-dairy story.  Congrats to Ms. Bozek`s class at Hardey Prep in Chicago. You are our #YourWordWednesday winner for incorrigible, an adjective meaning incapable   of being corrected, amended, or reformed. Well done.  Our shout-out today goes to Mr. Godoy`s class from Shue-Medill Middle School in Newark, Delaware. We see you and go Tigers. This shout-out goes to Aloha-Huber Park in Beaverton, Oregon. Thanks to Ms. Tofty`s class, the 7th graders there for requesting this shout-out. You   rock. Rise up. Remember, the day doesn`t make you. You make the day. So let`s make it a great one, right? I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. And I`ll see you   tomorrow. END 

Date: 2024-05-09
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, everyone. Welcome to the show. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. And I know it is a teacher`s appreciation week for a lot of   you out there. So let me just say that being part of your day is a privilege and honor that my team and I do not take for granted. Thank you   for all you do. Keep inspiring, uplifting, and uniting.  Keep doing your thing, Mr. Elder, at Nordhoff Junior High and Ojai. Keep shining, Ms. Skillin at Elizabethtown High in PA, rise up. And happy Friday   Eve.  Now to the news. We start today with an update on a story. We covered a few weeks ago, the potential ban of TikTok in the United States. Now, the   Chinese social media app is suing the U.S. government.  President Biden signed a bill last month that would effectively ban the social media app in America if the company that owns it doesn`t find a new   owner in the next few months.  Why is this happening? Because many American leaders say TikTok is a threat to U.S. national security. The app is owned by ByteDance, a privately owned   Chinese company. But in China, the authoritarian government often treats privately owned companies like they are government owned. That has some   U.S. security officials concerned that the Chinese government could use TikTok to try to influence Americans` opinions on certain topics or even   collect data on users.  But don`t wave bye to TikTok just yet. The Chinese social media app`s lawsuit against the U.S. government argues that the new law is   unconstitutional. CNN`s Clare Duffy has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CLARE DUFFY, CNN BUSINESS WRITER: The stakes here for TikTok are huge. This bill could lead to a ban of TikTok in the U.S., which is one of its biggest   markets, 170 million American users. And TikTok is claiming here that this bill infringes on the First Amendment speech rights of the platform and of   those American users. Just as a reminder, this bill would force TikTok to find a new American owner, spin off from its Chinese parent company ByteDance, or face a ban in   the United States. But the company is claiming that this bill really is just a ban and that if it`s left to stand, left to stay in place, that it   will lead to TikTok being blocked in the United States starting in January of next year.  The company claims in this lawsuit that the divestiture required by this law, and I`m quoting here now, "is simply not possible, not commercially,   not technically, not legally," and certainly not on the 270-day timeline required by this act. TikTok is citing here, for example, the fact that the Chinese government has said that it wouldn`t allow TikTok to be sold with its recommendation   algorithm, which is really the thing that makes this platform so valuable.  So TikTok saying it`s not possible for us to be divested from ByteDance. Therefore this is a ban and a ban is unconstitutional. And what`s   interesting about this is it`s really going to set up the court to have to weigh the U.S. lawmakers` national security concerns when it comes to   TikTok over or sort of against the First Amendment rights of this platform and of its U.S. users.  So I expect that we`ll see this legislature, this litigation, I should say, drag on for quite some time. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Now we head to Rafah, a city in southern Gaza. So far at least 50,000 people have evacuated as Israel conducts what it calls a limited military   operation in the city. The U.S. has now paused a shipment of 3,500 weapons to Israel amid fears they could be used in further attacks on Rafah. CNN`s   Jeremy Diamond has more. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The Rafah border crossing with Egypt now firmly under Israeli control. For now, that means nothing in   or out at this critical crossing point for humanitarian aid, fuel, and medical evacuations. As plumes of smoke rise over the area, the Israeli prime minister touting the operation as a play to bolster Israeli leverage in ceasefire talks with   Hamas, which put a new proposal on the table hours before Israeli tanks rolled into Rafah. BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): Military pressure on Hamas is a necessary condition for the return of our hostages.   The Hamas proposal yesterday was intended to torpedo the entry of our forces into Rafah. It did not happen. DIAMOND: Israeli air and artillery strikes began pummeling eastern Rafah late Monday night. UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): I`m 69 years old and I haven`t seen in my life shelling and bombing like this. I have witnessed many wars in my   life and I haven`t seen a war like this one.  DIAMOND: Things could soon get worse. Israeli officials are threatening to expand military operations deeper into Rafah where more than a million   Palestinians currently live. ANTONIO GUTERRES, UNITED NATIONS SECRETARY-GENERAL: A full scale assault on Rafah would be a human catastrophe. Countless more civilian casualties.   Countless more families forced to flee. DIAMOND: Thousands are already fleeing what was once the last refuge in Gaza for this coastal area the Israeli military calls a humanitarian zone,   setting up makeshift shelters with tarp sheets and thin planks of wood. Humanitarian aid officials warn this area isn`t equipped to handle the basic needs of hundreds of thousands of people who could soon be forced to   leave Rafah. After seven months of war, ceasefire negotiations offer the only hope of a way out. Jeremy Diamond, CNN, Jerusalem. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz, hot shots.  Black holes are created when which of these collapses?  A planet, a star, a galaxy, or a universe? If you said star, you deserve a constellation prize. Black holes are created when a massive star collapses after running out of fuel and falling   inward on its center.  All right, buckle up, my friends. We`re about to travel almost the speed of light, or to be specific, almost 670 million miles per hour. Are you cool   with that? This new NASA simulation shows what it would be like to get drawn into a massive black hole. Check it out. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This new NASA simulation takes you past the Earth`s atmosphere and into a supermassive black hole. The immersive visualization   was made on a supercomputer and moves viewers close to the speed of light. NASA created two different scenarios for viewers. One shows a first-person perspective of an astronaut just missing the event horizon or point of no return of the black hole and slingshotted back out.   And another, where it crosses the boundary and plunges into the event horizon. According to NASA, the black hole is similar to the one at the   center of the Milky Way and its event horizon spans 16 million miles. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10. Is it a wagon? Is it a car? Whatever it is, it`s completely legal to drive on the street and now it`s   for sale. CNN`s Jeanne Moos has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: For sale. Not a station wagon, but a little red wagon that grew into a big red wagon that goes 60 miles an hour,   mileage just over 57,000, basic interior with two seats and a steering wheel made out of a garden cart wheel. JUDY FOSTER, RADIO FLYER CAR SELLER: I`ll miss it and I`ll miss the fun of driving it. It`s just so much fun to take somebody for a ride and seeing   people`s reactions to you. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh my God, It`s amazing.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I love it.  MOOS: Other cars sometimes even follow it. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Then we started yelling at our grandma to drive after it. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Hey, you want to sell it? MOOS: Now, owner Judy Foster does. Her husband built the Radio Flyer 14 years ago on the chassis of this 1976 Mazda pickup. When Judy`s husband   recently passed away, she decided it was time to pass on the wagon. It`s up for auction at Alaska Premier Auctions. Co-owner Nick Cline says, why buy an expensive Ferrari? NICK CLINE, CO-OWNER, ALASKA PREMIER AUCTIONS: This one will get you more eyeballs than any of those at a fraction of the price. MOOS: They`re guesstimating $10,000 to $15,000, 8-foot handle included. Its four-cylinder Mazda engine runs on regular gas. In the movie Radio Flyer,   two brothers turn their wagon into an airplane. In real life, at least a handful of fans have built their own Radio Flyer cars.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Just riding in a Radio Flyer wagon makes me feel younger.  MOOS: Judy was even invited to drive her flyer around the Charlotte Motor Speedway. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You made that? UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yeah. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: All right. FOSTER: I`ve laughed and said, you can`t be in the Witness Protection Program and ride in a car. MOOS: If you`re craving attention, hitch your wagon to this star. Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: That thing is spoketacular. Takes station wagon to a whole new level. We hope you have a "wheelie," "wheelie" good day, superstars. We`re going to give a shout-out now. Mr. Chassanoff`s class at Tolland Middle School in Tolland, Connecticut. Keep flying high, my Falcons. And this shout-out goes to Mr. Ruggles` class at Sibley-Ocheyedan High School in Sibley, Iowa. March on, Generals. Hope you have a wonderful day. I`ll see you right back here tomorrow. I`m Coy Wire. And we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-05-10
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello and happy Friday, Friyay. I`m Coy. Welcome to CNN 10.  Many of you closing out Teacher Appreciation Week, showing love to leaders like Ms. Rivera and Ms. McDaniel at Magoffin in El Paso, Texas, lifting up   all of your Lobos and us. And Ms. Fay and young Mr. Vincent at WJCC Schools in Virginia. Big heart hands for all of our educators out there. Keep   showing your teacher`s love, y`all. All right. Time to get you your news for the day. And we do start with some of the scary weather happening out there. Tornadoes, hail, flash floods,   severe weather is rocking the United States. And there doesn`t seem to be an end in sight. In fact, there has been at least one tornado reported in   the U.S. every day since April 25th. That`s according to the Storm Prediction Center, a U.S. government group that tracks and forecasts severe   weather.  On Wednesday in Tennessee, at least four powerful tornadoes tore through the Volunteer State.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I just heard. It was a roar. That`s all it was, was a roar. And it`s gone. We have farm animals and we don`t know where nothing`s   at. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: The severe weather also brought flash floods, which led to water rescues and blocked roads north of Nashville. So far, strong storms across   the central and southern U.S. have caused at least four deaths. This powerful tornado just pummeled Portage, Michigan earlier this week. You can see one tree toppled after the next. Luckily, no serious injuries reported in Portage. The Storm Prediction Center says April to June is the   most active time for tornadoes in the U.S. and May is often the busiest month.  In Brazil, more rain is expected today through Sunday. Torrential downpours have already caused catastrophic flooding in the southern part of the   country, affecting more than one million people. Tens of thousands of people have been rescued. More than 100 have been killed. McKenna Ewen has   more on the difficult times in Brazil. (END VIDEO CLIP) MCKENNA EWEN, CNN DIGITAL PRODUCER: Video shows an airport tarmac in Rio Grande do Sul`s capital heavily flooded. This comes after heavy rains hit   the southern Brazilian state during the past week. The rains and consequent flooding in the region have caused a growing number of deaths and resulted   in many missing. The region has been increasingly hit by extreme weather events in the past few years. The climate crisis caused by the burning of   fossil fuels is making extreme weather events more intense and more frequent around the world. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Next, we head to Iceland, a country of fewer than 400,000 people. It`s home to 32 active volcanoes. Now, living near a volcano may sound   scary, but for the folks in the small town of Grindavik, there hadn`t been an eruption for literally hundreds of years.  But as you will see in this report from CNN`s Laura Paddison, that is no longer the case. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LAURA PADDISON, CNN SENIOR CLIMATE WRITER: It`s incredibly deep.  KLARA HALLDORSDOTTIR, FORMER RESIDENT OF GRINDAVIK: It is incredibly deep. And there were huge cracks in that area, which they`ve filled up already.   And this is actually the same crack that goes through town as well, all the way to the crater area, basically.  PADDISON: And it`s actually perilously close to your house just there.  HALLDORSDOTTIR: It is. Yeah. PADDISON (voice-over): This volcanic eruption just a few miles from the small town of Grindavik is the latest in a series of volcanic events to   rock the Reykjanes Peninsula in southwest Iceland. Having laid dormant for eight centuries, the volcanic system here is reawakening, marking a new   period of activity that could last tens or even hundreds of years.  For Grindavik`s 3,600 residents, that means dealing with lava flows, powerful earthquakes, destructive fissures and evacuations. Klara Halldorsdottir and her family evacuated in November last year. And like many, she doesn`t plan to return. (FOREIGN LANGUAGE) HALLDORSDOTTIR: I was asking if he`s moved back, but he said, no, no, no, I`m not going to risk it. PADDISON (on camera): Is he just visiting then?  HALLDORSDOTTIR: Yeah. PADDISON: Yeah.  HALLDORSDOTTIR: Picking up some stuff. PADDISON: And so no one is really living in this part? HALLDORSDOTTIR: No. Maybe there are about 30 people already living in Grindavik.  PADDISON: Yeah. HALLDORSDOTTIR: But yeah, the rest of us aren`t that keen on that. And, you know, nobody knows what Mother Nature is going to do next. PADDISON: So did lots of houses around here get damaged when this happened, right? I guess the ground must have moved quite a lot. HALLDORSDOTTIR: It did, actually. The brown house, it`s completely ruined. And the black house here is sinking more and more. And the grey house is my   horse staple. And we used to keep our horses on this pasture.  There are no pictures on the walls now, so it feels kind of like a house with no soul. For me and most of the people in Grindavik, having the   eruptions in 2021 and the following years so close by, it was fascinating. The earthquakes, of course, were the downside of it. But then it happened   so close to town. And that`s a totally different story. PADDISON: And can you tell me a bit about what the community was like here? HALLDORSDOTTIR: It`s a community of people who more or less know each other. And you would go to the grocery store and have a talk. And it was   like a close community. Now we`re spread out through various towns. And this is the feeling that we miss the most, I think.  PADDISON: Your kids, did they want to stay here or are they kind of --  HALLDORSDOTTIR: They still want to stay here. Yeah, it`s harder for them, definitely. This is where they grew up and they don`t know anything else.   And now we`re cooped up in a small apartment.  I think Icelanders are quite tough. I mean, we live in a harsh nature. And we`ve always known that this was an active area, but nothing has happened   for 800 years. And the last time that there was an eruption so close to towns was in the Western Islands 51 years ago. It lasted for a few months,   but then it was over. And then you could start rebuilding the community. But here we don`t know when it`s going to end. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia, which event`s motto translates to "faster, higher, stronger -- together"? Super Bowl, World Cup, Olympics, or Nobel Prize.  If you said Olympics, you get a gold medal. The original Olympic motto was three Latin words, Citius, Altius, Fortius. In 2021, the Olympic Committee added the word "together" at the end.  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10. Ooh, la la, ah, oui oui. The Olympic torch has finally arrived in France ahead of the Paris Summer Games. An   estimated 150,000 people came to see it arrive at the port city of Marseille. The torch was lit a month ago at the ancient Olympia site in   Greece. Then it set sail for France on a 128-year-old boat. The French Air Force did a flyover and streaked the colors blue, white, and red across the sky   to mirror the nation`s flag. Then the rapper Jul, a native of Marseille, took that torch and lit the cauldron.  For the next few months, the torch is going to crisscross France, ending up in Paris eventually, where it will light the Olympic cauldron on July 26,   marking the start of the Summer Olympics with the Paralympics to follow.  I will be there covering the games for us this summer. You know what? Maybe I`ll be covering one of you doing your thing in the 2028 Games in L.A.  Hey, remember that Sunday is Mother`s Day. So if you haven`t gone out and picked some flowers or written a nice little note yet, do whatever you got   to do.  Shout out to Righetti High School in Santa Maria, California. Go Warriors. Thank you for making us part of your day.  And to the Panthers of Duncanville High School in Texas, we see you. And Mrs. B, congratulations on your retirement. We wish you all the best in the next chapter.  All right. Cue the music, go out and make someone smile this weekend. Remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END 

Date: 2024-05-13
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, and welcome to the show. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, where I tell you the what, letting you decide what to think.   Hope you had an awesome weekend. Happy belated Mother`s Day to all the mamas out there.  So today`s Monday, first day of the school week, first day of the work week for most folks, but does it have to be that way? Whether you`re tightening   screws on an assembly line or crunching numbers at a computer, people have been working five days a week for a long time.  Henry Ford standardized the practice about 100 years ago when he required employees at his Ford Motor Company factories to work 40-hour weeks or   eight hours a day for five days. A century later, though, some companies are reconsidering whether that schedule still makes sense. CNN`s Clare   DUFFY:  has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SARAH ROBB O`HAGAN, CEO, EXOS: We went from desktops to laptops to mobiles. We`re working, working, working, and there was no discussion around, wait,   this has gotten out of control. CLARE DUFFY, CNN BUSINESS WRITER (voice-over): Preventing employee burnout has become such an important priority that nearly one-third of large U.S.   companies are exploring shorter work weeks. One of them is Exos, a performance wellness company. CEO Sarah Robb O`Hagan, saw the burnout and   wanted to fix it. ROBB O`HAGAN: It was a huge issue going on across all of our clients. And so we were like, well, hey, we could be a company that can help to figure   out how to solve this. DUFFY: Her answer was something she calls You Do You Fridays. (On camera): So tell us about You Do You Fridays. What does that mean?  ROBB O`HAGAN: So it means you do you. So you may choose to say this Friday, I`m exhausted. I need to go spend time out hiking. Other people may say   Friday`s my day to just do quiet work and not be disturbed. But what we put in place was you cannot email, text, write to any of your colleagues. You can`t set meetings. It is You Do You Friday. And what goes   hand in hand with You Do You Friday is how we constructed the other days of the week.  We structured this because we know actually from training high performance athletes that you put a lot of load on them and then you follow it with   really intentional recovery to get more out of how the athlete`s performing. So think about us in the workplace. Like if we`re working 80-  hour weeks, 70-hour weeks, which some people are, it`s like how on earth is your body ever recovering? Of course you`re going to get burned out. So the   more we can help to introduce this concept that recovery isn`t weak, it`s actually part of preparing you for higher performance. I think the better   for all of us. DUFFY (voice-over): Robb O`Hagan partnered with the University of Pennsylvania`s Wharton School to study how a four-day work week impacted   employee performance. ROBB O`HAGAN: We were trying to figure out, can we prove that with a four- day work week that employees will perform at the same level or better and feel better? And the answer was yes. DUFFY: During the six months of the study, Exos also reported that employee burnout dropped from 70% to 30%.  (On camera): It sounds like this works in part because Exos` culture is already structured in this way where you have employees who are probably   already having a lot of freedom over their hours. Do you think this is something that can work anywhere? ROBB O`HAGAN: Yeah, it`s funny. We get asked that question a lot. And I actually do like I think it requires leadership really being innovative in   how they think about what work really is. Every industry can really think about, is there a way to stagger shifts? Are there ways, even if you can`t do the four-day work week, to really   think about what we call a recovery first culture? (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz, hot shots.  Which one of these contains the world`s largest collection of coral reefs?  Great Barrier Reef, Amazon Reef, Apo Reef, A Christmas Reef?  OK, that last one`s a bad dad joke. But if you said the Great Barrier Reef, you are corally correct. The remarkable site located on the northeast coast   of Australia contains 2,500 individual reefs, 400 species of coral and more than 900 islands.  Next, we`re taking a trip to one of those islands, Lady Elliot Island, located at the southernmost tip of the Great Barrier Reef. The island is lush with greenery again, regrowing after decades of topsoil mining. But now there`s a new threat to this delicate ecosystem, mass coral   bleaching. CNN`s Ivan Watson has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): An hour off the coast of Brisbane, Australia, lies a tiny paradise island only   accessible by light aircraft. PETER GASH, LADY ELLIOT ISLAND ECO RESORT: We`re looking at the beautiful Lady Elliot Island, the first island off the southern edge of the Great   Barrier Reef. WATSON: But it didn`t always look like this. It has been through an incredible transformation. Led by one man. Landing here is tricky.  GASH: We have to deal with a short runway with crosswinds and it`s quite bumpy.  WATSON (on camera): Touchdown. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Have a good day. WATSON (voice-over): My pilot is Peter Gash. He basically owns the island, leasing it from the Australian government and running an eco-resort here   with his family. GASH: My wife and I came here 40 years ago, went underwater and absolutely fell in love with the place. We made it our life`s work. Because humans   have not bothered the animals for a long time since it`s been made a protected zone, because humans don`t interfere, we just look but don`t   touch. We don`t spear, we don`t fish. The wildlife is completely comfortable with us. WATSON: Meanwhile, above the surface, the island teems with seabirds. GASH: At its peak, it`s in excess of 200,000 birds.  WATSON (on camera): On this tiny island. GASH: On this tiny little island. WATSON: What are these tanks, for example?  GASH: That`s our water storage.  WATSON: OK. GASH: So we desalinate the water and we store it there. We keep about between 10 and 12 days of water. WATSON: How much of the energy being used by the resort comes from solar power?  GASH: 100% of it.  WATSON (voice-over): In the 19th century, settlers mined the island for bird guano, leaving the place mostly barren, hard coral. You can almost   count the trees that were here in 1970. GASH: Absolutely. There was almost nothing. Everything you see here, we planted. I couldn`t walk here 15 or 20 years ago because it was so rough.   Here now, we`ve got natural soil. Magnificent.  WATSON (on camera): Is this from your compost?  GASH: No, it`s from the trees and the bird. That`s bird poop, dead birds and trees and mulch. This is naturally forming. This is the island   regrowing again. The island grows about three millimeters a year.  Human input caused the problem. Nature, with a bit of help from humans, a bit of human input, is now recovering. It`s rewarding. And what it tells me   is if we can recover this small place, then we can recover this big place, this whole planet that we live on. It`s not hopeless. Every single one of   us can make a difference. WATSON (voice-over): Peter`s message of hope is inspiring, but it`s tempered by something we see underwater. Amid the reef sharks and sea   turtles, there`s coral bleached white. Enough to worry this island`s greatest enthusiast. GASH: What we do see is more and more bleaching, more and more stress on the corals. The hot water, the water warming, the environment changing and   bringing up the water. To me, that`s a big risk. WATSON (voice-over): The damaged coral here, part of the mass bleaching event caused by the marine heat wave along the Great Barrier Reef, a   phenomenon that could threaten the entire ecosystem. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: If you`re a dinosaur fan, you might want to go ahead and come with me to the Field Museum in Chicago. It has a fossil on display that some   scientists call the most important fossil of all time because it establishes a link between birds and dinosaurs. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DR. JIMGMAI O`CONNOR, FIELD MUSEUM OF CHICAGO: Archaeopteryx is the one fossil that tells us that the birds outside our window are living   dinosaurs. And I think that is so cool. And it`s also the oldest fossil bird that`s ever been found, the only Jurassic bird. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Research suggests that birds were the only group of dinosaurs to survive the mass extinction roughly 66 million years ago. Only 12   archaeopteryx specimens have been found and most are on display in Europe.  In honor of Mother`s Day yesterday, our 10 out of 10 is a shout out to some new moms and babies. The Nashville Zoo is welcoming the birth of four Red   River hog piglets. It`s the first litter of that species ever born there. Red River hogs aren`t endangered, but the population is decreasing in the   wild. They are native to the rainforests of Africa.  The Nashville Zoo is also celebrating the birth of a male red ruffed lemur named Helios. The species is native to Madagascar and is considered   critically endangered due to habitat loss. All right, you animals. Shout out time. Mrs. Kelly`s class and all the marvelous maroons at Perry High School in Perry, Oklahoma. Thank you for   being you.  And this shout out goes to Mrs. Kilcup`s class at Liberty Middle School in Spanaway, Washington. The lightning. Lighten up our day. Rise up. Make it a   great Monday. I`ll see you right back here tomorrow. I`m Coy. And we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-05-14
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, sunshine, rise up. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. Hope you`re having an awesome day. Let`s get this show on the road   and get you your news.  Graduation ceremonies are underway across the United States, and at some universities these celebrations are following clashes on campuses over the   war between Israel and Hamas. Over the past month, a CNN review has found that more than 2,000 people have been arrested on college and university campuses. As a result, schools   are making adjustments to their graduation ceremonies. Some have canceled or moved their ceremonies, while others have increased security, including   police barricades, metal detectors, and additional law enforcement. Over the weekend, students at Virginia Commonwealth University walked out as Governor Glenn Youngkin delivered his commencement address. And the same   happened at Duke University for comedian Jerry Seinfeld. Students carried Palestinian flags and chanted, Free Palestine. At the University of Southern California, the school canceled its commencement speech. It was set to be delivered by Anna Tabassum, the   school`s Muslim valedictorian. The school cited safety concerns as the reason for the cancellation. USC later canceled the entire commencement.   During a smaller ceremony on Friday morning, Tabassum received a standing ovation from her classmates.  CNN`s Camila Bernal is on the USC campus with the latest from around the country. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) LOGAN BARTH, GRADUATE, UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA: There are so many students that are frustrated right now, no matter what side of the conflict   you are on. CAMILA BERNAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It was a celebration, but it wasn`t a traditional commencement. BARTH: It`s a joke that`s going around our class. It`s kind of funny, but it`s kind of sad. Our last normal graduation was 8th Grade. BERNAL: Much of the class of 2024 impacted by the pandemic in high school. BARTH: I barely had a graduation. It was, you know, six feet apart mass, couldn`t have guests beyond your immediate family. So it was not normal. BERNAL: And now college graduation, also not normal for Logan Barth and many others graduating this year. A number of colleges and universities   around the country changing, adjusting, or even canceling commencement ceremonies, citing safety concerns after campus protests.  At Columbia University, the school says they decided to make class days and school level ceremonies the centerpiece of commencement. And a similar   focus across the country at USC. The university said the intensity of feelings fueled by both social media and the ongoing conflict in the Middle   East created substantial risks relating to security and disruption at commencement. ANNA KRYLOV, ASSOCIATE CHAIR, UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA: They handled it correctly by closing the campus and by calling police to clean   the encampment and arresting some people.  BERNAL: And they were trying to avoid this. At the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, pro-Palestinian protesters briefly disrupted the university`s   commencement ceremony. ABEERAH SIDDDIQUI, GRADUATE, UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA: I think I was less concerned with the protests and the encampment impacting   graduation. I was more disappointed in the university`s response to everything and how they handled things. BERNAL: At USC, graduation events went on without any apparent disruption. But it still wasn`t what many hoped for or expected. SIDDDIQUI: It definitely would have been nice to have a traditional commencement ceremony, especially for a class who was already impacted four   years ago. BERNAL (on camera): And in terms of protests, we did see at least a dozen students walking out of Virginia Commonwealth University commencement   event. This was after the governor of Virginia began his address to students here in California at UC Berkeley. The commencement ceremony   briefly stopped after protests and chanting. And the dean of students telling those protesters to leave and saying that they could speak to her   after the event. But eventually, these protesters did leave voluntarily and no one was arrested. Of course, that`s the type of thing that universities like USC   that canceled their main commencement ceremony wanted to avoid. What we saw here was a focus in the school graduations that happened from Wednesday all   the way up until Saturday. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia.  Solar flares happen on the surface of the Sun when what is released?  Heat energy, stored magnetic energy, cool energy or geothermal energy? If you said stored magnetic energy, then go on and bask in a sunny glow because you are correct. A solar flare is a massive explosion on the sun   that happens when stored magnetic energy is suddenly released.  Check out these incredible scenes from this weekend`s Northern Lights. This extraordinary phenomenon lit up the sky with dancing hues of green, purple,   sometimes pink, and it`s expected to continue this week. The official term for these lights is Aurora Borealis. They`re named after the Roman goddess   of dawn, Aurora, and the Greek god of the north wind, Boreas. But most people just call them Northern Lights.  So how are they formed? Here`s CNN`s Kristin Fisher with the cosmic science behind it all. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT: It`s called a coronal mass ejection. And those highly charged particles have been barreling   towards Earth at 500 miles per second ever since. The first particles began striking Earth`s magnetic field Friday afternoon. HAKEEM OLUSEYL, ASTROPHYSICIST: Just think of gazillions of protons coming toward Earth at the same time. There are also electrons in there. There are   also magnetic fields. And when they hit the Earth`s magnetic field or any other planet`s magnetic field, they interact with that field. And those   changes generate currents which can damage power grids, satellites, anything that has an electrical conductor involved. FISHER (voice-over): The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration is describing this storm as an extraordinary and very rare event, one that   also has them a little concerned. The biggest threats are to satellites and to global power grids. NOAA says it notified critical infrastructure operators and that mitigation efforts   have been taken. But it`s still warning of possible widespread voltage control problems. OLUSEYL: The last time we had a big power outage due to a geomagnetic storm was in the 80s. Have we fixed things since then? We`re going to find out. FISHER (voice-over): Satellites will also be tested. Most can go into a safe mode during a solar storm. But just two years ago, SpaceX lost 40 of   its Starlink Internet satellites during a geomagnetic storm that wasn`t as strong as this one. And then there`s the threat to people in space. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is Jamestown actual 12 astronauts, we got a solar storm coming in and it`s a hot one. FISHER (voice-over): Apple TV`s "For All Mankind" envisioned astronauts on the moon running for cover to dodge the incoming radiation during a strong   solar storm. In reality, it`s the astronauts currently onboard the International Space Station that may need to shelter in more protected   portions of the orbiting outpost. OLUSEYL: Space radiation is a known phenomenon that is dangerous to biology, whether it`s during a geomagnetic storm or just the general thrust   into outer space. FISHER (voice-over): But despite the potential danger, a solar storm also rewards us with some of the most spectacular auroras and this time over a   wider area extending as far south as Alabama. OLUSEYL: The beauty of nice coronal mass ejections is that we get to have an astronomical event basically come to us from space that`s visible to the   naked eye. We all just recently experienced this with the total solar eclipse that happened in April. So now seeing the Northern Lights, that is   another extraordinary astronomical event. FISHER (voice-over): Kristin Fisher, CNN, Washington. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Now for today`s story getting a 10 out of 10. When these homeowners purchased their Los Angeles County crib, little did they know that their   pool came with some fur-abulous friends. Maddie and her two cubs stopped by several times a week to take a dip, and apparently the cubs are not a fan   of the unicorn floatie. They`ve torn up several pool toys while playing.  But minor damage is bearable once you pause and reflect on the entertainment value. They check to see if anything`s cooking from time to   time. They might go for a climb on a big tree or just use it as a good old back scratcher. Wonder how much they`ll like the new pool toy they`re getting. Well done. Unbearable. All right, sunshine. We have a shout out for McClure Middle School in Kennesaw, Georgia today. Mr. K`s class, you rock. Finish this school year   strong, Mavericks.  And this shout out goes to St. Thomas Aquinas High School in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. We see you. Thanks for making the 10 part of your day.   Rise up. See it. Dream it. Believe it. And make it happen, y`all. I`m Coy, and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-05-15
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up, sunshine? I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. And we are pumped for #YourWordWednesday. So follow me @coywire on social and   put your word and definition in the comment section of my most recent post. And we`re going to choose one winner to work into tomorrow`s show along   with a shout out for you and your school.  All right. We start today in Canada, where more than 100 fires are burning across the country. These fires are approaching several communities and   have forced nearly 5000 people to evacuate their homes. In Canada, it`s been unusually dry for this time of year. And there wasn`t a lot of snow   over the winter to help keep the ground damp. In some places, fires from last year didn`t completely go out. They stayed hidden underground and came back when it got warm. These are called zombie   fires because they come back just like a zombie in a scary movie.  The smoke from these fires also is traveling into the United States and affecting air quality across the country. If there is an air quality   warning in your area, it`s important to stay safe and indoors until the smoke passes.  Red flag warnings and air quality alerts are some of the many benefits of living in a community, right? But for some, there`s still an appeal and   trying to live off the grid. That means completely self-sufficient, gathering your own food, shelter, power and water. It`s not an easy way to   live but it is much simpler and those who do it are saying that it can be tremendously rewarding. Let`s travel to the Wales countryside where some people are choosing to live off the grid. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WILL COOKE, BRITHDIR MAWR RESIDENT: We`re not saying all of this modern stuff and like all machinery is bad and all modern ways of doing things are   bad. We`re trying to integrate ancient ways of doing things with modern ways of doing things. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Many of us might try to live more sustainably to help the environment. But some take a more drastic approach, aiming to become   self-sufficient like these people living off the grid in the Wales countryside. COOKE: Brithdir Mawr is an intentional community which has currently got 23 people living on site of ages ranging between two and mid-60s. Started in   1994. I`ll take you on a little look around this way. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Intentional communities, eco-villages, housing cooperatives. There are many different types of these communities around   the world and they can be traced back to the U.S. and U.K. in the 1940s, inspired by the back to the land movement and popularized by hippies in the   60s and 70s. Two key elements that define Brithdir Mawr`s way of living are being off the grid and the community structure. COOKE: When we talk about the grid we mean the -- mains electricity grid, water, sewage and waste disposal. We`re not part of any of those networks.   But that doesn`t mean we`re completely cut off from society. We`re about 80% to 90% self-sufficient on food. Our water comes from spring on the mountain. Heating and cooking is done with wood, harvested from the land. Electricity comes from solar panels,   hydroelectric and a wind turbine. Here`s some goats. We milk the goats twice a day. We`re also making lots of cheese. JESS, LONG-TERM VOLUNTEER: So we`re going to be going up to the coppice and starting on that.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Roughly 100,000 people are living in similar ways around the world, according to a 2020 estimate from the Executive Director of the   Foundation for Intentional Communities.  (OFF MIC) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And the number has been rising in recent years. COOKE: We are a non-hierarchical community so there`s no individual in charge. We make our decisions by consensus. We want to have this balance   where we`re putting more time and energy into working on the land here and becoming more self-sufficient as opposed to putting all of our time into   earning money, working for someone else and then spending that money on the things that we need to live like food. On average people work one to two days a week doing other work because we are paying rent here. There are challenges here but then there are huge   challenges in terms of what people are going through in their everyday life out there. And anyone could learn the land skills. Anyone could learn the decision-making process. Anyone could choose to live in a way where you`re making being in harmony with the being in harmony   with the other people around you the priority. There are many, many ways in which people could live which would give more to the world than they`re   taking from the world. This is just an example of it. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz hot shots.  Where do most plants start their life cycle? Seed, root, soil or leaves? I was rooting for you but hate to soil your party. If you believe the answer was root, soil or leaves if you said seed then it`s time to turn up   because you are correct. Most plants start as seeds which contain a plant with leaves stems and roots. Now, let`s dive into the fascinating world of medicine where it all begins. Believe it or not a lot of the medicines that we use started in nature.   Plants create special chemicals to protect themselves from pests and diseases and many of these same chemicals can help us too. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CASSANDRA QUAVE, ETHNOBOTANIST, EMORY UNIVERSITY: Plants are everything. They`re what provide our food, our housing materials, our musical   instruments, our clothing and our medicines. When I look at a plant I`m looking to its chemistry and trying to understand the secrets that may   unveil new medicines. The use of plants as medicines goes back to the very origins of humanity. 34,000 species have been documented as being used in some form of   traditional medicine yet scientists have only looked at around a thousand of these plants.  I`ve traveled to some incredible places across the world in my search for nature`s next medicines. We`re looking for the next type of antibiotic. The   work that I do is deeply personal to me. I was born with multiple congenital defects of my skeletal system which required the amputation of   my leg at the age of three. I developed a hospital acquired infection that nearly took my life. Luckily back in the 1980s we still had antibiotics that worked against some of   these really bad bacteria. Today we`re not so fortunate. CRAIG HOPP, NATIONAL CENTER FOR COMPLEMENTARY & INTEGRATIVE HEALTH: A lot of our antibiotics have been around for a long time and the pathogenic   bacteria continue to develop resistance to them unless you come up with a continuous supply of new antibiotics. Acting by new mechanisms is not just   enough to have a new antibiotic. QUAVE: Over a million people die every year due to untreatable infections and so I`ve dedicated my life to searching for new medicines from nature to   combat the worst of these drug-resistant infections.  We collect plants in the field. We press them and deposit them into an herbarium which is like a library of life. We also take samples back to the   lab where we pull out the chemistry from the plant.  Some of our most exciting discoveries have come from plants like the American beautyberry, the European chestnut, and the Brazilian pepper tree.   We`ve discovered molecules in these plants that are very effective in the treatment of the worst drug-resistant bacteria including MRSA or drug-  resistant staph. We`ve also discovered fascinating molecules from the American beautyberry plant. These molecules restore the activity of antibiotics against very   dangerous resistant bacteria. The next phase of our research involves moving these discoveries from the lab to human clinical trials. HOPP: We could see a scenario in 10, 20, 30 years where many infections are not responsive to any type of antibiotic and for that reason Dr. Quave`s   work is essential to help prevent that from happening. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is picture perfect. These are the finalists for the 2024 Comedy Pet Photography Awards. There`s a little   bit of something for everyone. We`ve got pet and owner lookalikes, a kitty cat crammed in a crack followed by a high-kicking canine and a headless horse which is an illusion of   course. So stay vigilant y`all in case your pets do something silly because you could be the next winner.  All right superstars that ends our time together. Before we go here`s my favorite part of the show. This special shout out goes to Mr. Weeks class   at Freedom High School in South Riding, Virginia. Fly high Eagles. This next shout out goes to Riverside Middle School in New Castle, Colorado. Let`s keep learning today to help us conquer tomorrow. Thank you   for watching us and we`ll be right back tomorrow. Remember to submit your vocab words for hashtag your word Wednesday. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-05-16
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, everyone. Welcome to the show. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news because of you. We`ve got a lot   to get to today, not a lot of time to do it, so let`s get right to it.  Today we are starting with some important news involving the United States and Ukraine. The U.S. Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, just visited the   capital of Ukraine. During his trip, he said the U.S. will continue helping Ukraine and will give them an additional $2 billion for military spending.   This money is to buy ammunition and weapons for Ukraine`s war against Russia. Russia is pushing into northeastern Ukraine, and they`ve made major advances over the past week. These are Russia`s most significant gains   since 2022. As a result, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has canceled all international travel to focus on the war. At the same time, Russian President Vladimir Putin will meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping. Putin will arrive in China just over a week after   entering a new term in office. He has now extended his autocratic rule until 2030, following an election that did not have any true opposition. Here`s CNN`s Fred Pleitgen with more on the war between Russia and Ukraine. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Secretary of State Blinken`s visit to Ukraine comes at a critical time for the Ukrainians and the Ukrainian   military, as they`ve been suffering some setbacks on the battlefield and right now are also dealing with a massive Russian push coming in the   northeast of Ukraine towards Ukraine`s second largest city of Kharkiv. The Ukrainians are acknowledging that the Russians have gained some ground   there, while Moscow says that they`ve actually made some significant gains and wants to continue to press that offensive.  Now, the clear message from Secretary of State Blinken in his meeting with the Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy was that the U.S. is back as   far as military support for Ukraine is concerned and that the U.S. is back to stay. The Secretary of State saying that some of the U.S. weapons that   have been pledged have already arrived on the battlefield and others are on the way.  Now, for the Ukrainians, that cannot come soon enough. One of the reasons why their forces are under such pressure pretty much on all fronts right   now is the fact that they`re quite short on ammunition and on weapons, especially ammunition though. Another thing that the Ukrainian President pointed out, he said one of the biggest issues for Ukraine`s forces fighting in the northeast of the   country is Russian air power and the ability of the Russian Air Force to be much more effective than before. The Ukrainian President saying that   Ukraine essentially needs two surface to air missile batteries patriots of U.S. make very quickly. Fred Pleitgen, Berlin. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Let`s head to the United Arab Emirates in the Arabian Peninsula. This country is one of the world`s largest exporters of oil. Now, it`s looking   at a different source to produce energy. Household waste.  Let`s dive into the pros and cons of this technology and examine how these facilities could change the game for waste treatment and energy production   worldwide. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Is it the end of the road for this household rubbish? After all, it`s hard to imagine that anything here could be of further use,   but actually they`re just beginning a journey to produce power. TIM CLARKE, CEO WARSAN WASTE MANAGEMENT COMPANY: Around about 45% of Dubai`s total waste comes to this facility and we turn that into energy. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Overseeing this site in the United Arab Emirates, Tim Clarke is an expert in turning piles of trash into megawatts. Here, enough   to power approximately 130,000 homes. CLARKE: This facility is the largest of its type in the world. We`re processing about 1.9 million tons a year of waste. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The process is simple. Burn the waste, produce heat and steam, drive a turbine to make electricity. It`s a tried and tested   method that has existed for over a century. Now Tim says having a plant of this scale takes it to a different level. CLARKE: We operate at a 34% efficiency of producing electricity, which is much higher than it would normally be expected from an energy-front waste   plant. And that`s partly because of the size. We can operate at higher temperatures and higher pressures. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Last year, the world`s urban areas produced more than 2 billion tons of waste and that will grow to nearly double by the middle   of the century. Landfills are piling up and there`s an urgent need for a way out. BRYAN STALEY, CEO, ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH & EDUCATION FOUNDATION: If we`re globally putting more waste into open dumps, we`re creating methane that is   unmanaged. As a solution waste energy can create less emissions compared to a landfill setting. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: At Warsan, besides the energy produced, waste metal is recycled and leftover ash is used for building roads. Finally, Sulfur and   heavy metal contaminants are filtered and taken away. CLARKE: Only the 200 tons of flue gas residue is the net waste at the end of 5,500 tons of waste going in per day. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Using trash to create power can be seen as a more sustainable way to manage waste and combat the climate crisis. For experts,   it`s one piece of the puzzle. STALEY: I think waste energy is part of a holistic solution. If we look at things from a circular economy standpoint, turning that plastic bottle back   into a plastic bottle is by far going to have the least amount of energy consumption. And first, of course, would be just minimizing waste from the   get-go. For example, less packaging or no packaging. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is the future of trash in a world where no efforts are left to waste. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz, hot shot.  What hard, tough and shiny substance covers the crowns of your teeth? Wax, bone, enamel, keratin. If you said enamel, flash a big old smile. Tooth enamel is the hardest substance in your body, did you know? Stronger than your bones. Even though   enamel is strong, plaque and bacteria in your mouth can damage it. So brush and floss like a boss.  Ever wonder why we brush with a toothbrush? It should be called a teeth brush. Anyways, enough of being facetious. All right, we all know that   having issues with our teeth can be painful. And fortunately, many of us have dentists to help us ease that pain. But not everyone`s so fortunate.  CNN`s Laura Coates shares the story of one dentist who provides care to an underserved population and dedicates himself to a mission much greater than   himself. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DR. DONDRE SIMPSON, DENTIST: Dude, how you doing man? You doing good? KATRINA UPTON, NEW FOUNDATIONS HOME FOR CHILDREN: He does so much more than clean teeth.  Awesome! He teaches, he motivates, he`s like a therapist. He`s so much more than a dentist. LAURA COATES, CNN SENIOR LEGAL ANALYST: How are you? You have a demonstrated philosophy of providing care and respect and dignity to anyone   who needs your help. SIMPSON: I do what I do because this is what God put me on this earth for. COATES: I`m actually the daughter of a dentist who really devoted his life to public service and ensuring dental care was given to people who were   most in need. He would go into the prisons. He really believed in meeting people where they were. You also wanted to go into the prisons, I understand as well. Not only to provide that service, but you recognize in many ways that why should they   be denied the dignity of care? SIMPSON: There`s a shortage of dentists in prisons around the country. Most inmates, I`d say 99.9% of them, they really are grateful that they get to   get out of pain. If I can be courteous and kind and respectful and do my job and treat you good, regardless of who you are, where you are, that`s my   goal. UPTON: This is New Foundation`s home for children. We have kids in the foster care system and we have kids in the juvenile justice system. He   serves an underserved population. He`s not making a lot of money off of these kids. He comes because he feels led to be here. JEROME PRICE, DENTAL PATIENT: I got here around 2019 because I had another foster home that I was at and that didn`t work out. As he cleans my teeth,   he talks to me about my ambitions. He remembers everything I tell him and I`m not his only client. SIMPSON: So that`s mind-blowing to know that if I can plant a seed in somebody, unknowingly, but just doing my job, doing the way that I do it,   it will influence them to make good decisions and be a more productive citizen. UPTON: He`s absolutely creating a brighter future for these kids. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: All right, all you animals. Today`s 10 out of 10 takes us to the 2024 Westminster Dog Show where the winner is Sage. She`s a miniature poodle who   just pranced her way to best in show. Now, it`s not unusual to see a poodle on the podium, but Sage proved that you don`t need size to take home the grand prize. She`s only the fourth   miniature poodle to win the show`s biggest honor, and that deserves a round of "a-paws." All right, we`re showing some serious puppy love today to Alex and all of our friends in Mr. Stephen`s class at Vintage High School in Napa,   California, for today`s vocabulary word winner, facetious, an adjective meaning treating serious issues with deliberately inappropriate humor. Well   done.  We also want to give a shout out to Edwin M. Stanton School in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, home to the Stanton Stallions. I see you, home   state.  And we`re also showing some love to Mrs. White`s Media and Society class at West Aurora High School in Aurora, Illinois. Soar high, Blackhawks. Thank you for joining the show today. Remember, wherever you are out there, you matter. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10, and I`ll see you tomorrow. END 

Date: 2024-05-17
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up, Superstar? Fri-yay all day. Way to crank out another week. Hope it`s been a great one, and hope your weekend`s   about to be epic. I`m Coy, this is CNN 10.  Let`s start today talking about the current housing market in the United States. An increasing number of potential first-time home buyers are   becoming concerned that they simply might not be able to afford a home. According to a new Gallup survey, three out of every four Americans say   it`s a bad time to buy. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) STUART GABRIEL, DIRECTOR, ZIMAN CENTER FOR REAL ESTATE AT UCLA: We have a generation today who I think is more pessimistic than any other generation   about even the chance that they`ll ever be homeowners. WIRE: Now, young Americans have been battling a one-two punch of high home prices and painful mortgage rates. It`s important to understand how these   two things work. High prices are fairly straightforward. Homes are really expensive. In fact, it`s likely the most expensive purchase you`ll ever   make, right? A mortgage rate is how much you`ll have to pay to borrow money to make that purchase. Right now, that number is around 7%. JESSICA LAUTZ, DEPUTY CHIEF ECONOMIST, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS: Unfortunately, higher interest rates are really the wet blanket of spring   right now. WIRE: All right, let`s say you wanted to buy a $400,000 house today, and you needed to borrow money from the bank. Well, with a 30-year fixed   mortgage with a 7% interest rate, you`d pay back your loan over 30 years with that same 7% interest rate, and by the end of the 30 years, you would   have ended up paying $750,000 for a $400,000 home. GABRIEL: Home ownership, which has traditionally been a vehicle of wealth accumulation for the typical American household, is just unavailable to a   large segment of the population. So we really have a kind of a tale of two Americas that`s emerged. WIRE: Now, at the same time, rising home prices have boosted homeowners` net worth. That`s great for homeowners, but it doesn`t help home buyers or   potential buyers who are trying to purchase their first house. LAUTZ: We continue to see multiple offers, three offers for every home that`s listed as an average. So those bidding wars are continuing with that   lack of inventory. WIRE: Mortgage rates should drop once the Federal Reserve lowers interest rates, but inflation has been really stubborn, and it`s taken longer than   expected. That`s led many young Americans to continue renting or to live at home with family.  (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia. When was the first presidential debate televised? 1954, 1960, 1972, or 1980?  If you said 1960, slay. The first televised presidential debate was between John F. Kennedy and Richard Nixon, and it took place in 1960. It was   straight from a television studio with no live audience.  President Joe Biden and former President Donald Trump have accepted CNN`s invitation to debate in June. This is an historically early debate that   will set the tone for the final months of the 2024 campaign. And it`s unique because it`s a presidential debate between two people who`ve already   done the job. Both men also accepted an invitation for a second debate in September. President Biden released an ad campaign confirming his   participation. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOE BIDEN, (D) U.S. PRESIDENT: Well, make my day, pal. I`ll even do it twice. So let`s pick the dates, Donald. I hear you`re free on Wednesdays. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Former President Trump replied on Truth Social by posting, I am ready and willing to debate Crooked Joe at the two proposed times in June and   September.  Former President Trump added that he would strongly recommend more than two debates. These are certain to be highly anticipated debates. Here`s CNN`s   Brian Todd with some of the greatest moments in presidential debate history. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): For more than 60 years, televised presidential debates have provided us with extraordinary,   decisive moments, which often changed the tenor of the race.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The candidates need no introduction.  TODD: September 1960, in the very first televised presidential debate, Richard Nixon, who was ill, was visibly sweating compared to his cool and   youthful opponent, John F. Kennedy. TIM NAFTALI, FORMER DIRECTOR, NIXON PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARY: When the two were viewed side by side and you asked yourself, whose finger would you like to   be on the nuclear button? It became clear you didn`t want the sweaty guy from California. TODD: In 1984, Ronald Reagan, then 73 years old, used humor to deftly deflect concerns about his age in a debate with Walter Mondale. RONALD REAGAN, (R) VICE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I am not going to exploit, for political purposes, my opponent`s youth and inexperience. NAFTALI: The effect was magical and politically devastating for Walter Mondale. TODD: Most of those defining moments came with no warning or calculation. LAURA BARRON-LOPEZ, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST: A bad moment in a debate can hurt you significantly more than a good moment can help you. TODD: In the vice-presidential debate in 1988, Dan Quayle characterized himself as a Republican version of a young John Kennedy, which teed up his   opponent, Lloyd Bentsen, perfectly. LLOYD BENTSEN, (D) VICE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Senator, I served with Jack Kennedy. I knew Jack Kennedy. Jack Kennedy was a friend of mine. Senator,   you`re no Jack Kennedy. TODD: There were the wordless missteps, the body language gaffes. 1992, George H.W. Bush looking out of touch by glancing at his watch when an   audience member spoke about the lagging economy. 2000, Al Gore audibly sighs. And in another debate that year, Gore gets a little too close to George W. Bush on stage. BARRON-LOPEZ: Any little tick or habit that a candidate may have is something that voters could seize on and it could change the way they view   the candidate. TODD (on camera): If there are colorful moments like those in the debates coming up, analyst Laura Barron-Lopez says she doesn`t believe they`ll be   as impactful as those past moments were, because she says so many Americans have already decided who they`re going to vote for. And those moments, no   matter how sensational, simply won`t move the needle as much. Brian Todd, CNN, Washington. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Let`s head to South Korea for today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10. Seoul`s annual Space-Out Competition. It`s not about the stars or planets   or anything like that, it`s about challenging the social norm that downtime is a waste of time. The competition is trying to show that doing absolutely   nothing can be valuable. CNN`s Hanako Montgomery has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) HANAKO MONTGOMERY, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A crowd gathering, media jostling for the best spot to catch sight of a fierce competition among   more than 100 people in South Korea recently. They are rivaling each other in Seoul`s annual Space-Out Competition, where contestants have to zone out   for 90 minutes without falling asleep or checking their phones. The winner gets determined based on audience votes and competitors` heart rate. This year, more than 4,000 people applied to participate in the competition, the city government says. From an Olympic athlete to bakers,   contestants came dressed in clothes that reflect their different professions. KWAK YOON-GY, SHORT TRACK SPEED SKATER (through translator): I tried out for the Olympics five times and have never taken a proper rest while   training for 30 years. I heard this place is where I can clear my mind and rest at least during this time. So I came here thinking, wow, this is what   I needed so much. GU GA-HYEON, BAKER (through translator): While we stare at the oven, we see customers outside the window going out after buying bread while we work in   the hot heat. We`re so tired and exhausted, so we wanted to relax our mind. MONTGOMERY : Since its first competition in Seoul in 2014, the contest has expanded internationally, taking places in cities like Beijing and Tokyo.   For this year`s competition in Seoul, the winning trophy went to a freelance broadcaster, Kwon So-a, who works multiple jobs. KWON SO-A, FREELANCE BROADCASTER: I think, especially here in Korea, it`s such a competitive country where people think that if they do nothing, they   are a little behind. So I think everyone has to have their own pace and sometimes just slow down. MONTGOMERY: Hanako Montgomery, CNN. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Smell the flowers, cool the soup. It`s Friday. I want to give a shout out to Mr. Francisco`s American Studies class at Rogers High School in   Toledo, Ohio today. Rams, you rock.  Next, this shout out goes to Ms. Mormon and Mr. Creech`s Social Studies class at Georgia Academy for the blind in Macon, Georgia. Rise up. I hope you have an awesome weekend. Don`t ever underestimate your ability to make someone`s day. You are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you. END 

Date: 2024-05-20
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up party people? Hope you`re starting your week off right. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. This Monday kicks off our   final week of the show before summer break. So let`s make the most of these last five episodes of the season. All right, let`s get started today. First up, we head to Atlanta, Georgia, where President Joe Biden delivered a commencement speech at the graduation   ceremony for Morehouse College, one of the more than 100 historically black colleges and universities or HBCUs in the United States.  The first HBCUs were founded before the Civil War when slavery was still legal in parts of the U.S., which meant that racial discrimination made it   difficult or depending where you lived, illegal for black people to get an education. We have seen many prominent African-Americans attend HBCUs over the years, including Oprah Winfrey, Dr. Martin Luther King, and current U.S. Vice   President Kamala Harris.  President Biden`s visit to Morehouse, which is an all-male campus, comes at a time when polls show that his support among young people and black men,   among other groups, is lagging. And it comes at a time when student protests over the U.S.` policies toward the war in Gaza have made headlines   on several college campuses. On Sunday, a small number of Morehouse students in the audience turned their chairs so they were facing away from the president in silent protest   as he delivered his commencement address.  In his speech, President Biden cited a number of his policies that he said have supported black Americans, and he restated a call for an immediate   ceasefire in Gaza. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOE BIDEN, (D) U.S. PRESIDENT: It`s a humanitarian crisis in Gaza. That`s why I`ve called for an immediate ceasefire. An immediate ceasefire to stop   the fighting, bring the hostages home. And I`ve been working on a deal as we speak, working around the clock to lead an international effort to get   more aid into Gaza. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: CNN`s Nick Valencia was at Morehouse College talking to students ahead of a graduation ceremony that had students divided about the choice   of commencement speaker. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NICK VALENCIA, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): When you talk to Aylon Gipson about his upcoming college graduation, you can see he`s excited.   COVID canceled his high school commencement in 2020, so this one is extra special. AYLON GIPSON, MOREHOUSE COLLEGE, GRADUATING SENIOR: I think most are like me that are a little bit enthusiastic, but most just want a peaceful   graduation without protest. VALENCIA: For the 21-year-old Morehouse senior, getting President Joe Biden as the commencement speaker is his words, pretty cool, even if he does see   why some of his peers think the choice was controversial. GIPSON: I personally don`t agree with some of the things that the White House has done -- VALENCIA: But you still want him to come here. GIPSON: I still want him to come, because I agree with his full body of work. COLIN ROYAL, MANAGING EDITOR MOREHOUSE COLLEGE STUDENT NEWSPAPER: There`s been mixed reactions, some for, some against. VALENCIA: Morehouse student newspaper managing editor, Colin Royal, says mostly the invitation created confusion on campus. ROYAL: The fact that we weren`t really in the loop for that was kind of concerning, especially when you have somebody of that magnitude and   somebody that`s been involved in a lot of things that students have protested against. VALENCIA: Who would you guys much rather have as a commencement speaker? MARQ RIGGINGS, MOREHOUSE COLLEGE, GRADUATING SENIOR: I am inclined to say Andre 3000. VALENCIA: They joke, but Mark Riggins and Noah Collier have been on the front lines as two of the most vocal critics at Morehouse to Biden`s   invitation. RIGGINGS: I exist as more than a prop for a photo op. VALENCIA: Draped in Keffiyeh, the pro-Palestinian activists tell us about what they call U.S. imperialism, which they say Biden has amplified by his   arm support for the war in Gaza, while at the same time overlooking their concerns as black men. NOAH COLLIER, MOREHOUSE COLLEGE, GRADUATING SENIOR: He completely dismissed us by calling us violent, by calling us anti-Semitic. VALENCIA: Are you? COLLIER: No, in no way shape or form are any of us anti-Semitic, because if we were we would not be engaging in these protests. The idea of anti-  Semitism does it -- completely contradicts and conflicts with the values that we move with. DAVID THOMAS, MOREHOUSE PRESIDENT: Was part of my calculus that he would say yes to us because he`s in this presidential race? Absolutely. VALENCIA: Morehouse President, David Thomas, invited Biden to be the commencement speaker back in September. Today, he defends the decision as   well as the school`s choice to give Biden an honorary degree. THOMAS: What I want them to walk out thinking is the president of the United States came to give the commencement speech at Morehouse College   because Morehouse College matters in the world. And therefore, what I do with the privilege of having gone to Morehouse means I should matter in the   world. VALENCIA: In the longstanding tradition of Morehouse`s student-led activism, Thomas says he will give space for protests on Sunday, but will   take a hard line if protests are disruptful. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten second trivia, which foreign country owns the most U.S. debt? Japan, China, U.K. or Mexico? Ding, ding, ding, Japan is your correct answer here. The U.S. owes trillions of dollars in debt to several different countries because the   government spends more than it brings in in taxes. The U.S. borrows money from other countries to cover its expenses.  Becoming financially stable can be a very complicated process, but in the end, it comes down to basic math. Did you earn more than you spent? If so,   then things should be OK. Well, when put into those terms, the U.S. government is not in the best shape. It`s expensive to run the government.   And in order to pay for social services like Medicare, which is healthcare partially paid for by the government for people over the age of 65, the   government needs to collect taxes to cover the cost and the thousands of other costs like it for which the government pays. For the last several years, for both Democratic and Republican administrations, the U.S. government has been spending more than it   collects in taxes. Our Matt Egan breaks down the financial terms for us and makes sense, if you will, of the country`s current financial predicament. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MATT EGAN, CNN BUSINESS REPORTER: People sometimes get confused when we talk about the debt and the deficit. Can you explain the difference between   the two and the relationship? MARK ZANDI, MOODY`S ANALYTICS, CHIEF ECONOMIST: The deficit is the difference between what the government is taking in in revenue and what   it`s spending. You just take the total revenue, subtract the total expenditure, that`s the deficit. If you go back to the year 2000, it was   actually a surplus. EGAN: Did you say surplus? There was a surplus?  ZANDI: Can you believe it? EGAN: Can we get another surplus anytime soon? ZANDI: No, we`re not even close. I laugh, I should be crying. I mean, no, our deficit is large. It`s $1.6, $1.7 trillion. That`s a long way from   zero. And all the trend lines look pretty difficult here. EGAN (voice-over): And the national debt has reached a record of over $34 trillion. For some perspective, if you took $34 trillion one-dollar bills   and stacked them on top of each other, they`d reach the moon and back almost five times.  (On camera): This can all sound so complicated and massive, right? A trillion dollars here, a trillion dollars there. Can you talk about what   ways all of this will impact the average American, right? The college kid that just graduated, or a new home buyer, or a single mom. ZANDI: It`s not one of those cliff events. It`s more of a corrosive on the economy. Yeah, it results in steadily higher interest rates. It does mean   that we`re going to be paying more for getting a mortgage loan if we want to buy a home, which is already very unaffordable, you know, given the high   rates and the high house prices. It`s going to affect rates on getting a loan to purchase a vehicle. Credit card loans. Any borrowing we need to do, it`s just going to be more costly to do it. The interest payments on the debt is starting to add up and starting to   crowd out the kind of things we want our government to do. I mean, the interest payments now are over a trillion dollars. In fact, I think we are now spending more on interest payments on the debt than we are on our own national defense. I don`t think that`s ever happened   in the history for which we have data. EGAN: And so every billion dollars that we`re spending on interest to our creditors is a billion less that we can maybe spend on things that we care   about, like education or defense or rebuilding roads and bridges. Is that right?  ZANDI: That`s exactly right. EGAN: Who gets the blame here? Is this a Republican problem? Is this a Democrat problem? Is it really bipartisan? ZANDI: If you kind of add up deficit-financed initiatives done under Republican presidents and add up the deficit-financed initiatives done   under Democrats, interestingly enough, it comes out to be about the same. So it`s a bipartisan problem. We all are guilty of the rising deficit and   debt that we`re struggling with right now. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10. Goal! Workers at Major League Soccer match in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, between the Union and the New   York City Football Club went on a raccoonaissanse mission to trap a raccoon storming the pitch. Look at him go! Dodging defenders like Messi. They tried to trap him with a trash can, then tried and tried again. Can you believe it? They finally caught it and it was OK. The Philadelphia Union say the star of the show was safely released. All right, shout out time now to my superstars at St. Margaret`s School in Narberth, Pennsylvania. Rise up!  And we`re showing some love to our friends at Madison No. 1 Middle School in Phoenix, Arizona. Let them hear you roar, Wildcats.  Take some great energy into this week. If you`re off to a great one, keep it going. If you`re off to a rough one, keep going. Remember, it`s not what   we`re going through that matters, it`s how we go through it. Minds right, shine bright.  I`m Coy Wire. And we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-05-21
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up, everybody? It`s your boy, Coy, here. Time to fuel our minds this terrific Tuesday, but man, what a bittersweet   week. Summertime is almost upon us, and that is awesome, but it`s also the last week of the show before summer break. Definitely have some things   planned for us over the summer, though. Some more on that to come. All right, let`s get to your news. In Iran, the country`s army chief is ordering an investigation into a deadly helicopter crash that has shaken   the nation. Iran`s president, Ebrahim Raisi, and several other officials were killed after their helicopter crashed in a remote mountain region in   the northwestern part of the country. There was heavy fog in the area at the time of the crash. Raisi was a political hardliner. He was voted into power in 2021, easily beating his   competition, the former president, Hassan Rouhani, who was more of a moderate. Raisi earned 18 million of the nearly 29 million votes that were   cast.  Iran is considered an Islamic republic or a theocracy, meaning that a religious figure runs the country. In Iran`s case, that religious leader is   supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei an Islamic fundamentalist. Raisi, as president, was second in command. His death comes at a tense moment for the entire Middle East. It was only weeks ago that Iran launched   a full-scale drone and missile attack on Israel. That was retaliation, they said, for an Israeli strike on a diplomatic complex in Syria that killed   several Iranian officials.  CNN`s Ivan Watson shows us how the people of Iran are reacting and what`s next for the country. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Iran in a state of mourning, commemorating the shocking death of Iranian President   Ebrahim Raisi. He was killed along with the Foreign Minister and seven other officials and crew members when their helicopter crashed in remote   mountains Sunday in the northwest of the country.  During the frantic hours when rescuers searched for the missing president, the most powerful figure in the Iranian political system, Supreme Leader   Ayatollah Khamenei, declared the government stable and strong. ALI KHAMENEI, IRANIAN SUPREME LEADER (through translator): Dear people, whether you are sitting here or will hear my speech later, do not worry.   There will be no disruption in the country`s work. WATSON: Inside Iran, highly polarized reactions to the sudden death of a leader. ARASH AZIZI, CONTRIBUTOR, THE ATLANTIC: Ebrahim Raisi has been a face of repression in Iran for a very long time. I`m not surprised that many will   celebrate. ALI VAEZ, SENIOR ADVISER, INTERNATIONAL CRISIS GROUP: I see more continuity than change, regardless of what happens next. WATSON: According to the Iranian constitution, the little-known vice president, Mohammad Mokhber, has now become interim president, paving the   way for elections to be held within 50 days. VAEZ: This is a system that has managed this kind of turmoil in the past. So in the short run, it can certainly manage choppy waters, but in the   longer run, it`s a system that is ideologically bankrupt. WATSON: Messages of condolence are pouring in from longtime allies like Syria, as well as Russia, which launches Iranian Shahed drones against   cities in Ukraine.  Also publicly mourning Raisi`s loss, Iranian-backed militant groups such as Yemen`s Houthis, Hamas, and Lebanon`s Hezbollah. Meanwhile, few tears   likely to be shed by Iran`s sworn enemy, Israel. The two countries` long- simmering shadow war exploded into direct, tit-for-tat, long-range strikes just last month. AZIZI: I don`t think it will shift anything in the region or in terms of Iran`s relationship with its neighbors or neighboring powers. That`s   because most of the power in Iran lies with Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei, who is still in power, and he`s the one who is cutting all the shots. WATSON: How the Islamic Republic deals with this deadly crash may set the stage for a much bigger future challenge, the question of succession for   Ayatollah Khamenei, the country`s 85-year-old supreme leader. Ivan Watson, CNN. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Next, we head to Maryland, where the busy port of Baltimore is a step closer to reopening. Almost two months ago, the Dali cargo ship collided   with the Francis Scott Key Bridge, causing it to collapse, killing six construction workers.  On Monday, the ship was finally dragged away from the crash site. Several tugboats pulled the massive 106,000-ton vessel, traveling only one mile per   hour. Dali is now docked at Seagirt Marine Terminal in Baltimore.  CNN`s Amy Kiley has more about Dali`s removal and what will happen now to the crew of workers who have remained on board the ship ever since it   crashed. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) AMY KILEY, CNN NEWSOURCE & REPORTER (voice-over): Recent demolition work is what gave the Dali cargo ship a path to freedom. It`s been stuck under the   wreckage of Baltimore`s Francis Scott Key Bridge since it hit the structure and caused its collapse in March. COL. ESTEE PINCHASIN, U.S. ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS: We`re very lucky that the hull was never damaged at all during the event. KILEY: Officials say transporting the Dali takes up to five tugboats. GOV. WES MOORE, (D) MARYLAND: I mean, we have a ship that`s the size of three football fields. KILEY: But freeing the ship doesn`t mean freeing its crew members. Regulations have them stuck on board where they`ve been since the crash.   The law requires a ship like the Dali to have a crew at all times. Now, the workers` visas have expired. The union representative says they`re waiting for immigration officials to tell them when they can go home.   Further complicating matters is the ongoing investigation. JENNIFER HOMENDY, CHAIR, NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD: Without the propeller turning, the rudder was less effective. They were essentially   drifting. KILEY: The union says the FBI confiscated crew members` cell phones last month and they feel disconnected from family. The company that manages the   Dali says it hopes authorities will let the workers disembark soon. As for the channel, the Army Corps of Engineers says soon. PINCHASIN: We`re going to be able to bring anything through the port of Baltimore, anything that would have come through before. KILEY: I`m Amy Kiley reporting. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Next, let`s go to Arizona where a wildfire there is growing. Officials say the so-called Wildcat Fire more than doubled in size over the   weekend and is 0% contained. So far, it has scorched more than 12,000 acres of the Tonto National Forest. Tonto is Arizona`s biggest national forest at more than 2.9 million total acres. As fire officials try to get the wildfire under control, they`re   pleading with drone operators to stop flying near the fire. They say the drones interfere with firefighting efforts and could cause mid-air   collisions. Pop quiz, hot shots.  Which of these sea critters is the most expensive seafood? Lobster, bluefin tuna, puffer fish or caviar? Bet you said caviar, didn`t you? Don`t go fishing for compliments if you did because bluefin tuna is your answer. Bluefin is so expensive because   it`s on the endangered list. In 2019, a sushi restaurant tour paid more than 3 million bucks for a 612- pound bluefin tuna. Talk about expensive taste. Personally, I`m on a seafood diet. I eat whatever food I see. But for those of us that actually   like seafood, there will be fewer Red Lobster restaurants to attack. The world`s largest seafood restaurant chain just filed for bankruptcy. The company has more than $1 billion in debt and less than $30 million in cash. Bankruptcy doesn`t mean Red Lobster is going out of business   completely. Instead, it plans to sell the company to its lenders. But it will definitely be closing many of its restaurants in the meantime.  For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, we have liftoff. Finally, after a nearly two-year hiatus, Blue Origin, the tourism rocket company founded by   billionaire Jeff Bezos, has once again launched passengers into the outer regions of our atmosphere to check out the incredible view from the edge of   space. Among those folks torpedoing into the sky was Ed Dwight, a 90 years young, retired U.S. Air Force captain. Back in 1961, Mr. Dwight was selected by   then President John F. Kennedy to be the first black astronaut candidate in U.S. history.  Despite receiving all the astronaut training he needed and getting a recommendation from the Air Force, Mr. Dwight was not ultimately selected   to actually become an astronaut, so he never made it to space, that is, until Blue Origin came knocking. (END VIDEO CLIP) ED DWIGHT, RETIRED US AIR FORCE CAPTAIN: I thought I really did need this in my life, but now I need it in my life. This is fabulous, thank you so   much. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Congratulations to you, Mr. Ed Dwight. We salute you and thank you for your service. Rise up. Now it`s time to reach for our stars. That`s you. This shout out goes to Mr. E`s and Mr. T`s class at Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Public School in   Patterson, New Jersey. Kind of fitting to have Mr. E.T. getting shouted out after our space story. Thank you for being you.  Next, we shout out Mrs. Bagley`s class at Bayside High School in Virginia Beach, Virginia. We see you and thank you for being with us this year.   Let`s keep shining, keep nurturing those dreams. Almost anything is possible, if you believe. We`ll see you tomorrow, everybody. I`m Coy, and we are CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-05-22
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up, everyone? Hope you`re having an awesome day. If not, there`s still time to turn it all around. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. Remember that today is #YourWordWednesday, so listen up to see if the word you submitted helped us write today`s show. We start today at The Hague in the Netherlands with an announcement from the International Criminal Court. It is seeking arrest warrants for Israeli   Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his Defense Minister, as well as three leaders of Hamas, the Palestinian terrorist organization that runs   the Gaza Strip. The court says war crimes were committed in the October 7 attacks on Israel and the subsequent war in Gaza. The International Criminal Court, or ICC, was founded in 2002 to investigate war crimes or crimes against humanity. It is independent from   the United Nations, but the two groups do collaborate at times. Unlike a court in the United States or maybe another country, the ICC doesn`t have   its own police force to make arrests. Instead, it relies on the 124 countries that recognize the court`s legitimacy to arrest people accused of war crimes. The United States is not   a member of the ICC, but President Joe Biden still slammed the court for its decision to go after Israel. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOE BIDEN, (D) U.S. PRESIDENT: We reject the ICC`s application for arrest warrants against Israeli leaders. Whatever these warrants may imply, there   is no equivalence between Israel and Hamas. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: If the ICC grants the arrest warrants, all the people named, including Netanyahu, could not travel to any of the 124 member countries,   including the U.S. allies of Germany and Britain, or else they would risk getting arrested.  Next, we head to Ukraine, as the U.S. ally fights back against its neighbor Russia, which invaded the sovereign nation more than two years ago. Heavy   fighting is raging in the eastern Kharkiv region of Ukraine, as billions in new U.S. aid is just now making it onto the battlefield. CNN`s Nick Paton   Walsh takes us to the front lines. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): Dusk begins a race to hide before dark. It`s this drone unit`s first night in a new location.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Whoop. PATON WALSH: The twilight, a tiny window when perhaps you can unpack, set up without the Russian drones that are always, always above, seeing you as   clearly. Like so much in this fast-changing war, their task was unimaginable when Moscow invaded. Their target is on the horizon, Russia   itself, into which they fly and plant mines on key roads. They wait for dark. WALSH (on camera): Those lights twinkling over there on the horizon, that`s Belgorod, Russia. How close they`re operating towards Russian mainland. PATON WALSH (voice over): Putin`s latest offensive towards Kharkiv has made the fight personal for Artem. His parents live about a five-minute drive   away and fighting for his literal home is unsettling. ARTEM, DRONE OPERATOR, "CODE 9.2" DRONE UNIT (through translator): It`s anxious. For real. For a year and a half they didn`t know that I`m in a   combat brigade fighting near Bakhmut. I was telling them I`m guarding checkpoints. PATON WALSH (voice over): And now, for the first of many times, their only defense is to listen for drones. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (Foreign language). UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Back. Back. Back. Orlan (Russian drone) flying. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Right over us. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What? UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Orlan. PATON WALSH (voice over): It passes. Now it is dark. They must hurry. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (Foreign language). PATON WALSH (voice over): Russian drones have thermal cameras. They hear another. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Quiet. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Flying. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No lights, no lights, no lights. PATON WALSH (voice-over): Battles raging nearby may help them go unnoticed. They resume. Any strike could also ignite the two mines they`re fitting.   But they hear another drone. UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Come one. UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Run. PATON WALSH (on camera): Such an escalation over two years into the war to now see Ukrainians flying drones of explosive straight into Russia. PATON WALSH (voice-over): Inside Sasha watches it cross the border. UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Here`s the border. UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Did you bring your passport? UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): No visa needed. PATON WALSH (voice-over): Remarkably, when Russian jamming kicks in, the drone keeps going. And they`re able to pick the signal up again, deeper   inside Russia. They spot the target road they will mine, drop both payloads, and head back. But they have to be spotted only once and these   shells may not pass overhead. We leave quick. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Go.  PATON WALSH (voice-over): Lights off at first to avoid drones. The road littered with anti-tank defenses not laid out in time to hinder Russia`s   latest advance. And now they have only courage and ingenuity to hold back the dark. Nick Paton Walsh, CNN, outside Kharkiv, Ukraine. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Pop quiz, hot shots. Which of these sea creatures is the largest invertebrate on Earth?  Giant sea spider, Japanese spider crab, giant squid, or Lion`s Mane Jellyfish? All right, sea stars, if you said giant squid, you are correct. They can grow up to 60 feet long. It`s the world`s largest invertebrate, which is an   animal with no backbone. For our penultimate story of the day, we get a glimpse of some rare footage of a deep-sea squid. Scientists from the U.K. and Australia captured   visuals of this deep sea hooked squid, one of the largest deep-water squids in the world. It was filmed grabbing a camera over 1,000 meters deep in the   South Pacific. The creature flashed bioluminescent lights on two of its arms and sank the camera. Those lights, called photophores, are the largest known in the   world. They`re typically used to startle prey. Scientists say the squid mistook the camera for a snack.  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a real-life magnet man cleaning up the streets. Did you know that according to the U.S. Environmental   Protection Agency, the average American produces almost five pounds of garbage each day? And some of that trash ends up on the streets. Use a   trash can, people.  Well, you`re about to meet a superhero of sorts, a man with a genius plan to keep the streets clean. Meet Alex Benigno. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ALEX BENIGNO, MAGNET MAN: My name is Alex Benigno, and I am Atlanta Magnet Man. I love hearing that very distinct sound that it makes every time I   pick up something.  My initial goal was to clean up my route to work. And when I started doing this, I had no idea just how much more was out there that I never saw   before.  I put a lot of research into it, a lot of trial and error, trying to figure out what would be the best way. The goal was to get the magnets as close to   the ground as possible, and the easiest way was on a bicycle trailer. So I put these rows in this configuration to make it easier to go over bumps, and then I just kept going with it and see, well, how much can I   pick up? And within eight weeks, I went 522 miles and collected 410 pounds.  That`s a lot of stuff. Wow.  It never ceases to amaze me every single time I lift this up, just how much I`ve picked up. After I made the Instagram account, people will message me   and ask me to do areas that are particularly bad. You know, it makes me realize just how important it is to get this out to as many people as I possibly can. Any bit of free time I have, I dedicate   to doing this. And my goal is to try to get as many other people interested in pulling these behind their bicycles, and they can do the same thing in   their neighborhoods. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Simply awesome. Congrats to Mrs. Civelletti`s class at Rivermont Collegiate in Bettendorf, Iowa, for today`s Your Word Wednesday winner,   penultimate, an adjective meaning next to last. We see you, Lions. Our shout-out today goes to Ms. Fortney`s class at North Side High School in Jackson, Tennessee. Thank you for making us part of your day.  And this shout-out goes to all my captains in Mr. King`s class at Keith Middle School in New Bedford, Massachusetts. Rise up, everyone.  And friendly reminder, not all heroes wear capes, so get those wheels turning and figure out how we can do something to make this world a bit of   a better place, maybe just by making someone smile today. END 

Date: 2024-05-23
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Let`s get our energy up, up, up. Happy Friday, Eve. Welcome to the show. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10.  School year`s winded down, so remember to show some love to your teachers who are informing and inspiring us to be a little better each day. Give a   handshake, a high five, a fist bump. Let them know I see you.  All right, we begin today with an historic decision stemming from the ongoing war between Israel and Hamas in the Gaza Strip. Three European   nations, Spain, Norway, and Ireland say they will formally recognize a Palestinian state next week. More than 140 U.N. nations already recognize   Palestinian statehood, but very few European nations have gone that far. That`s why this announcement is significant. Spain, Norway, and Ireland say this is the best way to achieve lasting peace in the region. But not everyone agrees. President Biden says it would   be better for Israelis and Palestinians to negotiate a two-state solution themselves rather than have outside countries apply this kind of pressure.   And Israel, for its part, is furious. It ordered its ambassadors from Spain, Norway, and Ireland to immediately come back to Israel.  So what does it mean to recognize Palestinian statehood? For now, it`s a largely symbolic move, but it puts pressure on Israel as it fights a   controversial war in Gaza.  Countries that recognize Palestinian statehood believe there should be an independent Palestinian nation that operates like any other country in the   world. Right now, much of the international community considers Gaza, East Jerusalem, and the West Bank as occupied Palestinian territory.  Next we head to Iowa, where officials are surveying the damage after a series of storms and tornadoes ripped through the Midwest on Tuesday. In   Greenfield, there were several deaths and injuries. One official says the town, about 50 miles southwest of Des Moines, has been almost entirely   destroyed.  At least 18 tornadoes were spotted across Iowa on Tuesday. So far this year, more than 800 tornadoes have been reported in the U.S., making it one   of the most active years on record. The storms are now set to travel both north and south, with officials saying cities from Tulsa to Cleveland   should be storm aware.  People in central Honshu, Japan, have had enough with over-tourism at a famous landmark. You may remember we reported on the show about the   concerns of locals near Mount Fuji, where a great selfie spot has caused all sorts of issues for their town. CNN`s Hanako Montgomery tells us how a   much-discussed solution to deal with the surge of out-of-towners has finally gone up. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) HANAKO MONTGOMERY, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): This view, once the perfect snapshot of Japan`s old and new, now has a black curtain drawn.   Overwhelmed by tourists blocking roads, littering, even trespassing onto private property to take selfies, the town of Fujikawaguchiko has now   erected a black curtain to block the view and deter tourists, much to the locals` relief.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): There have been many accidents involving foreign tourists recently.  MONTGOMERY: And to the dismay of visitors. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So I think to put a black panel on this road is something with brute force. And I think they can do better for this. MONTGOMERY: Mount Fuji, a UNESCO World Heritage site and a Japanese icon, attracts millions of visitors annually. But post-pandemic, numbers have   swelled to record levels, well beyond control, local authorities say, causing human traffic jams and garbage to litter the sacred peak. The local   prefecture now says it needs to charge $13 per climber and impose a daily hiker cap of $4,000 in a bid to address over-tourism starting this season. (On camera): But as you can tell by the crowds of people around me here, one of Tokyo`s biggest tourist hotspots, Mount Fuji isn`t the only victim   of over-tourism. It`s a nationwide problem. Over three million people visited Japan in the month of April, and though that`s good news for the   economy post-pandemic, it`s put a strain on resources and local communities. (Voice-over): Earlier this year, the historic city of Kyoto had to close off some alleys to combat Geisha paparazzi, a name given to visitors   snapping photos of geisha without permission. While Kamakura, a seaside town just outside of Tokyo, is urging tourists to walk around instead of   taking the train to ease congestion.  Struggling to accommodate an unprecedented surge of inbound visitors, many encouraged by a weak yen, local tourist spots have resorted to taking   matters into their own hands. Even if it means curtains for an Instagram hotspot. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: Ten Second Trivia.  In what year was Artificial Intelligence founded as a field of research? 1935, 1956, 1970, or 1983? If you said 1956, your intelligence is not artificial. In 1956, Dartmouth College professor John McCarthy organized a summer workshop around Alan   Turing`s question, Can Machines Think? McCarthy named the project Artificial Intelligence and a field of research was born. Hollywood actress Scarlett Johansson has some serious issues with the new voice for the bot in an update for OpenAI`s ChatGPT, the artificial   intelligence program with which you can have conversations. She says that voice sounds eerily similar to hers. CNN`s Jason Carroll is on the story. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Good morning, Theodore. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Morning. JASON CARROLL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): You never saw her face in the sci-fi romance titled "Her", but audiences knew it was Scarlett   Johansson`s distinctive voice for trained Samantha, the synthetic Siri like character in the 2013 film. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You have a meeting in five minutes. You want to try getting out of bed? UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Too funny. CARROLL: The actor is now speaking out against OpenAI and its CEO Sam Altman, saying her real voice sounds too close to the one OpenAI created   for ChatGPT`s updated model, the artificial voice goes by the name "Sky." Here`s a sample but what Sky sounds like. SKY: Hey there. It`s going great. How about you? CARROLL: Too similar for Johansson, she released a statement saying, my friends, family, and the general public, all noted how much the newest   system named "Sky" sounded like me. I was shocked, angered, and in disbelief. Altman fired back saying the voice of Sky is not Scarlett Johansson, and it was never intended to resemble hers. We cast the voice actor behind Sky`s   voice before any outreach to Ms. Johansson. On OpenAI`s blog, it said the company wanted a voice that was timeless, approachable, and it narrows the field of more for than 400 voice   submissions and settled on a different actress saying, we believe that A.I. voices should not deliberately mimic a celebrity`s distinctive voice. Altman would not reveal who they hired to voice Sky, he says, to protect their privacy. Johansson isn`t buying that, saying not only did Altman reach out last September with an offer to have her voice ChatGPT 4.0, which she says she   declined. She also says two days before it was released. Altman asked her agent if she would reconsider, then he tweeted this on May 13th, the day of   its release, just one word: her. People we spoke to were split on whether ChatGPT Sky sounds similar to Johansson? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I accept Lucy, how it sounds like her. CARROLL: Do you think the voices sound similar yes or no? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No, not really. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I don`t think it sounds similar. I don`t. I think it`s distinct enough. CARROLL (voice-over): People can debate all they want. Johansson has hired legal counsel saying this is about protecting her person`s likeness and   identity. As for OpenAI, it paused the use of Sky voice and its products, its CEO apologizing saying, we are sorry to Ms. Johansson, that we didn`t   communicate better. (END VIEOTAPE) WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 cowabunga or doggobunga (ph). Check out these four-legged fur babies hanging ten, hitting the waves with   their human companions in a surfing competition in northern Spain. Supaw stars in the Annual European Dog Surfing Championship over the weekend. Look at them go. A pet food company organized the event to promote dog adoptions and to discourage pet abandonment. We are given a huge round of   applause for a chocolate lab named Koa and her owner Juan Emanuel Santiago, who were crowned winners of the waves. All right. Now, I told you there were some things planned for the summer, for after this final week of the show. One thing is, we want to know what   you would ask the presidential candidates running in this 2024 election, something about their policies, maybe their thoughts on the current state   of the U.S. or of your state. We want to hear from you. We may get an opportunity to use your question in the near future, so let us know and   stay tuned.  All right, favorite part of the day, a very special shout out to Mr. Morton`s class at Columbia Middle School in Aurora, Colorado. Thank you for   spending part of your day with us. Go Cougars.  And this shout out goes to the Trojans, the Mighty Trojans in Mr. Mahoney`s class at Worthington High School in Worthington, Minnesota. Let`s go. See you tomorrow, everyone, and happy Friday Eve. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. END 

Date: 2024-05-24
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, Sunshine. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. Happy Friyay. It`s our final episode of the season, but I want to let you know   about something we have planned for you for next year. Something awesome for all the teachers out there. A special series featuring some of the real   superheroes, you, on this show. More on that to come.  All right, let`s finish this year strong. First, are you going to any big concerts this summer? There`s a good chance you`ll buy your tickets through   Ticketmaster. Remember the site that famously crashed last year when a gazillion people bought Taylor Swift tickets? Well now, the U.S. government is suing Ticketmaster`s parent company, Live Nation, for violating antitrust laws. Antitrust laws are rules that try to   stop monopolies from forming. A monopoly is a company that is so big that it makes it difficult or even impossible for other smaller companies to   survive. The government argues Live Nation, which also manages concert venues and promotes events, is a monopoly because it owns every phase of the live   event production, squeezing out the competitors. Live Nation calls the lawsuit baseless. But if the government wins, Live Nation could be broken   up into a bunch of smaller companies. Next, we head to Iran, where the country is mourning its President, Ebrahim Raisi. He was buried yesterday following a deadly helicopter crash that we   showed you earlier in the week. It also killed several high-ranking officials. Massive crowds flooded the streets of Tehran, the country`s capital, as part of a funeral procession for Raisi and the other victims. The president   was later buried in his hometown in the northeastern city of Mashhad at the Imam Reza Shrine. It`s one of the holiest sites for Shiite Muslims.  Our Fred Pleitgen has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Hundreds of thousands lining the streets as the caskets made their way   through Tehran. Chanting, marching along, paying their final respects. (On camera): Ever since that helicopter crash that killed Iran`s president Ebrahim Raisi, as well as of course the Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-  Abdollahian and several others we`ve seen some of the displays of public mourning here around the country in Iran. That was especially here in   Tehran where this massive procession is one that is part of the funeral processions to lay to rest the people who were killed in that helicopter   crash. (Voice-over): I am here for my president, she says. He did a lot for Iran, to prove that we loved him very much. Iran`s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei himself leading the funeral prayers. With foreign dignitaries, but also senior leaders of Hamas in   attendance. While Iran`s investigation into the crash is ongoing, the president`s chief of staff, who was traveling in a different chopper in the convoy, saying   one of those aboard the doomed chopper was alive and communicating for at least three hours after the crash. The chief of staff also giving more   details on the incident itself. GHOLAM HOSSEIN ESMAILI, IRANIAN PRESIDENTIAL CHIEF OF STAFF (through translator): Captain Mostafavi, who was the pilot of the helicopter   carrying the president and the commander of the helicopter convoy, ordered the other helicopters to gain altitude and go above the clouds. When we   reached above the clouds, and after about 30 seconds, we realized the president`s helicopter wasn`t with us. PLEITGEN: Mourning, sorrow and anger in the massive crowd as Iran`s leaders vowed to maintain stability. Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Tehran. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: For the first time since 2008, an African leader is making a state visit to Washington. President Biden and the first lady welcoming Kenyan   President William Ruto and his wife to the White House yesterday. The Biden administration is hoping to boost ties with African nations in order to   counter China`s influence in the region. China has loaned billions of dollars to Africa, giving it a lot of leverage over the continent.  Ten second trivia.  In what year was Elvis Presley`s estate Graceland opened to the public? 1966, `77, `82 or `93?  If you said 1982, you are correct. Elvis Presley`s ex-wife Priscilla was co-executor and co-trustee of Presley`s estate. She worked to open the   Graceland mansion in Memphis to the public in 1982. Thank you. Thank you very much. According to History.com, Graceland is the second most visited residence in the U.S. behind only the White House, did you know? Songs like Blue Suede   Shoes, Jailhouse Rock, catapulted Elvis to superstardom in the 1950s. The so-called king was such a cultural phenomenon that his home in Memphis   became a museum. But the Presley family almost lost it this week. A lending company planned to auction off Graceland to the highest bidder. It claimed Elvis`s   daughter, Lisa Marie Presley, owed them millions of dollars on a loan and the company wanted to seize Graceland to make good on the debt. But Elvis`s granddaughter filed a motion in court to stop the auction. She claims the loan paperwork was fake. A judge agreed with her, halting the   auction and accusing the lending company of potential fraud. So for now, Graceland is staying with the Presley family and it stays open to the public. So rock on.  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10. One reminding us that we`re never too young to have some fancy taste. A Florida baby going viral on TikTok for   being a big fan of the swanky Four Seasons Hotel in Orlando. Check it out. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) BAILEY WISE: I have a question for everybody. Who wants to go to the Four Seasons Orlando?  KATE (ph): Me. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Me. WILLIAM WISE: Me. We would have never expected this. When we created it, we thought nothing of it. I`m obviously not really dressed to go viral in the video. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Meet William and Bailey Wise, parents of one-year-old Kate who became an overnight sensation. The family didn`t know they`d gone   viral until days later, thanks to Bailey`s sister, Stephanie. STEFANIE O`BRIEN: Then all of a sudden it was like a million, two million. I was like, which million do we tell her at?  BAILEY WISE: I don`t even have a TikTok. And so I certainly didn`t know my sister posted this. Honestly, I send videos to my parents all the time. We   were just trying to coerce them to come to the Four Seasons with us so that we could have a little bit of downtime. And my mom thought it was hilarious   and sent it to my sister. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The Four Seasons responded to the family, announcing baby Kate is their newest ambassador. B. WISE: She has a little personality on her own. She has opinions. And so we showed her pictures. She`s seen the Four Seasons. So, you know, she   certainly knows when we`re excited about something. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The family says they plan to visit the Four Seasons Orlando within the next few weeks. B. WISE: I think that`s probably what captured the Internet is the dichotomy of that video. I mean, yes, we`re sitting here talking about the   Four Seasons, but my kid`s in her diaper. I mean, my husband`s shirt is unbuttoned. Could she be a little bougie? Maybe. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE: All right last episode before summer break for many of us, shout out to Mr. Schwarz and Mr. Lotsenheiser`s class at Western Heights Middle   School in Hagerstown, Maryland, and Mr. Walser`s class at Case High School in Racine, Wisconsin. We see you. Also, special shout out to my small but mighty team, Laurie, Jocelyn, McKenna, Zach, Jeremy. They work so hard to make this the best 10 Minutes   in News for you. I speak for all of us when I say thank you. We learn something new with you every day and love sharing stories with you. Your support means the world to me, and all the interactions I have   with you on social media just lights up my day.  So all of those of you who are graduating, go on and shine bright. Take on the next chapter by storm and know that we`re always here for you to stay   up to date and informed.  Many blessings. Finish this year strong and take boundless energy into the summer. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this year with you. END 

